 Good morning, everyone.
 Hello, Dr. Kamara, how's it going?
 Everything is fine.
 How was your assessments?
 All good, very fun to tackle.
 Good.
 Reddy, how was your assessment?
 Yep, all good, so far.
 Good.
 Thank you.
 Good.
 Can you please tell me, as we left
 with one of the questions in our last lecture,
 that what are the shortcomings or the limitations
 of the C-entry algorithm?
 Can you please quickly search and paste your answer
 into the chat?
 Thank you, Dr. Kamara.
 Good morning, everyone.
 Welcome to the C-entry algorithm,
 where we will be discussing some of the challenges
 that the C-entry algorithm is facing.
 And we'll be discussing some of the challenges
 that the C-entry algorithm is facing.
 And we'll be discussing some of the challenges
 that the C-entry algorithm is facing.
 And we'll be discussing some of the challenges
 that the C-entry algorithm is facing.
 And we'll be discussing some of the challenges
 that the C-entry algorithm is facing.
 And we'll be discussing some of the challenges
 that the C-entry algorithm is facing.
 Good morning, Professor.
 Good morning, Renato.
 I have asked anybody to search the limitations
 or the shortcomings of the C-entry algorithm,
 the question which we left in our last class.
 So quickly, have a look and search and paste
 your answer into the chat.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 So Louis mentioned high tendency to overfitting training data
 due to memorizing noise and outlies in training data.
 And Ferdi mentioned that no building uncertainty,
 small data set produce unreliable trees.
 Okay, fair enough.
 Anybody else?
 Complexity in which sense?
 Whether you are referring to the time complexity
 or space complexity of S.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 Yes, and another important
 term which the Louis mentioned before going there,
 Wes mentioned because when the data set and different features grow,
 it can create more complexity in the C-entry.
 Yes, in terms of space and time both.
 Yes, true.
 And then very important terminology,
 which everybody has to be very much clear
 is what is overfitting and underfitting.
 So firstly, what is underfitting?
 Underfitting happens when the model fail to learn important patterns.
 It performs poorly on both training and testing data.
 Underfitting happen due to the model is too simple,
 very high regularization features are weak or missing, not enough training.
 So sometimes if you have like very few samples related to a data set,
 where the model actually can't learn the important features out of that one.
 So for example, everybody's coming and they say,
 I have a fever, I'm feeling back pain and so on.
 So you as a medical petitioner actually did not ask whether are you feeling sneezing?
 Do you have a flu?
 Is your platelets count is decreasing?
 So the other symptoms which are really very important for you
 as a medical petitioner to decide whether the person is a COVID patient or not a COVID patient.
 So of course, if somebody is just saying I'm feeling pain and I have fever,
 it could be a malaria, it could be a typhoid, it could be a dengue fever.
 It could be a normal seasonal flu.
 So it is very important for that medical petitioner to identify,
 to learn the features which are very important
 to distinguish between the related diseases, which I just mentioned.
 So maybe your model hasn't learned those features properly, which are very important.
 And that is what we are saying the model is underfitted.
 It did not learn the things properly.
 The second one is overfitting.
 Overfitting happens when the model learns too much from the training data, including the noise.
 It means some things which is really very important for you to learn
 to distinguish that this is right, this is wrong, right?
 You also considered that noise, that wrong things into your training,
 and you consider them that this is okay.
 There is no issue with that one, right?
 And what happens then?
 So sometimes maybe this example may not be applicable or understandable to everyone,
 but sometimes there are few words which normally we don't want to speak with our family members,
 especially with the parents, especially with our siblings, for example.
 And there are certain jokes, certain fun things which we normally do with our friends, right?
 And if in your brought up, in our brought up, if we think that this is okay to do,
 whether the jokes which could be done with the friends or the fun which could be done
 with the family is totally different or there is a certain limit, right?
 Something which you can do with your friends, but not with your parents, for example.
 But if you understood that this is okay, both things are okay.
 So now what will happen?
 It means you learned the noise as well.
 You learned the wrong things as well.
 And why I'm saying it is noise, because this is not applicable to those jokes,
 are not applicable to your parents, but you consider them as it's okay, right?
 And you haven't distinguished them properly.
 Now what will happen when you go home?
 You talk with your parents, you talk with your siblings.
 Maybe you will make those jokes with them.
 Right?
 Without understanding that these are not applicable to them.
 So that is what they call it as you are overfitted.
 So overfitted happens when the model learns too much from the training data,
 including the noise and outliers.
 Means some things which like you have to distinguish it clearly.
 And it performs very well on the training data, but poorly on the test data.
 Right?
 Because you have learned the noise as well.
 Now what will happen if somebody say is this joke is applicable to your parents or just your friends?
 You're not able to distinguish it properly.
 Right?
 Because you considered everything is okay.
 Right?
 Now if somebody give you a test data because now they have the right data, that is correct.
 Right?
 This is okay.
 This is not okay.
 Right?
 So but when the test data will come, you will not really perform good there.
 Right?
 And that is what it is overfitted.
 Overfitted happens due to the model is too complex, too many features,
 are very little data, are very high, various is there.
 Right?
 These two things are really very important.
 Underfitting is when your model fails to learn the important features, important patterns,
 important information, hidden information that a model, a machine learning algorithm has to learn.
 And it hasn't learned it properly.
 So now even if you will give the training data or the testing data, it will not perform good there.
 And on the other hand, overfitting is when your model is learned too much from the training data,
 even the noise.
 And now when it is applicable to the test data, it is not performing really well there.
 Right?
 And that is what we call it as overfitting and underfitting.
 So any questions?
 I hope you understood these two terms, which are very important.
 Overfitting and underfitting.
 Any question related to these two terms?
 Super clear.
 Okay, now the other thing which we started in our last class was related to the CN tree, right?
 The CN tree algorithm is the first algorithm, you can say,
 which we are studying as a first and there are a lot of other algorithms as well.
 But the algorithm for classification as part of this course.
 We discussed in our last class that classification is a supervised learning technique.
 Supervised learning means where we know what we are going to do, means we know our label.
 And classification because the type of the label, the type of the attribute,
 which we are going to predict is categorical in nature.
 It has few categories among which you have to do that classification, that prediction.
 And then we further discussed, if there are only two outcomes for a particular label,
 then we call it as binary classification.
 And if it has more than two classes, more than two outcome values of that particular label,
 among which we have to do the prediction, then it is called multi-class classification.
 With a very simple example, and if the type of the attribute is continuous,
 then it is a regression problem.
 And with very simple example, I can explain these three concepts.
 That is the weather forecast data.
 If you are saying tomorrow is rainy or not rainy, then it means,
 firstly, it is a supervised learning, means you know what you are going to do.
 Now, you just have to predict between which whether tomorrow is going to be rain or not, right?
 Then it is a classification and it is a binary classification, right?
 Now, if the classes are whether tomorrow is rainy, windy, cloudy.
 Again, you know what you are going to do and the type are the limited,
 but it is more than two, then it is multi-class classification.
 If you are predicting, how much would be the temperature tomorrow?
 7 degree, 8 degree, 9 degree regression, because the value
 which you are going to predict is continuous in nature, right?
 Then we started with the decision tree.
 We discussed that decision tree is basically used for classification
 and also decision tree regressor, DTR.
 And we discussed that in this one, you have attribute features to be selected.
 And the first feature that you will select on the top is would be the your root attribute.
 And then the branches would be the outcome values of that particular attribute.
 And then once you reach here, you will basically need to
 split your data based on these features and here there would be a separate split based on this
 feature value and then you will keep growing this tree means it is a recursive process
 until you reach on your leaf node, right?
 And then further we discussed that if there would be any value here, which we can just answer.
 And that is what the decision tree algorithm is also called is rule based learning.
 Right, rule based learning where you induce certain rules after constructing a decision tree
 and then you can just simply answer.
 So, for example, you can make one rule that if the student value is no,
 income value is high, age value is less than 30.
 So, you would say no, you can have another rule student value is no, income value is high,
 but the age is greater than 30, then you will approve the loan for that particular person.
 Right?
 So, means you will write all those rules which you have induced inferred from this decision tree.
 Right? Now, before revising, how this decision tree would be constructed because then I have
 to come back here, I want to link the limitations which you have mentioned.
 Right?
 So, you can see that if you have more number of attributes, then it would be really hard
 for you to manage the whole construction of this decision tree into your memory.
 Or if you will store it, you need a substantial amount of memory to store this whole decision tree.
 Right?
 The next thing is if I had to answer only one question, this is very important.
 I will just need to raise two questions.
 If I have to answer this particular instance, this test case.
 For this one, I need to construct the whole decision tree.
 I will construct the whole decision tree.
 And afterwards, I will traverse this rule over here, and then I can answer.
 So, it means even to answer a one test case, one test sample, I need the construction of
 whole decision tree.
 Second thing.
 You have mentioned after this one that if the student value is no, income value is high,
 age value is less than 30, then you will not approve the loan for that particular individual.
 But what are the chances?
 How much sure you are?
 What is the probability that you will not approve the loan for that particular person?
 Right? Because when we talk about classification, we need a certain answers.
 Sometimes you have a line on 50 and somebody is on 48, somebody is on 52.
 So, there are very high chances that 52, 54th one will jump into that class below 50.
 And that 48 would adjust a normal change into the feature, can jump into the 52.
 But we are 100% sure if somebody is on 20, if somebody is on 80.
 81 is 100% pass, 21 is 100% fail, 48 one can pass, 52 one can be fail.
 So, 20, 81 is okay, 70, 31 is okay.
 But the border cases creates a lot of problem.
 For that one, we need to have a shorty, we need to know the probability.
 Right?
 And this is what we can't see from the decision tree.
 So, two problems I raised, two issues I raised.
 That one is, if you have to answer a single test case,
 then you need to construct the whole decision tree.
 Of course, for that one, time complexity will involve, space complexity will involve,
 you need a storage, you need a computational resources to manage all of that one.
 Just to answer one test case.
 And the second is, even whatever the answer you will give me, whatever the label you will assign,
 you weren't able to tell me the probability.
 You weren't able to tell me the relevance or what is the likelihood of that one.
 Right?
 That is, that are the two issues which actually let us to think about its solutions.
 And that is what we have today, Naive Bayes algorithm.
 Right?
 So, before going into the detail of Naive Bayes algorithm, let me quickly recap what
 we have discussed last time about the decision tree.
 If anybody missed the lecture or has any confusion, please speak up and do ask the questions.
 We will see here that you need to select this particular attribute as your root attribute.
 Right?
 And then we discussed that you will split your data set.
 Right?
 That is what we were discussing.
 And then for each of these one, you need to select these particular attributes.
 Right?
 And then we further discussed that what is the chances or what are the ways to select
 that particular attribute.
 Right?
 We thought that we have to select the best splitting attribute would be the one which
 has low contradictions, means it has less uncertainty, but if you have a data set, which
 is very small, which we did in our last class as well, does it fly?
 It is easy to do it.
 But if you have a huge data set with a lot of features, then it is really very difficult.
 Right?
 For that one, we discussed that there are two things, mathematics help us there that
 you can do.
 One is the entropy.
 The other one is the information gain, as we discussed last time.
 And we discussed in detail how to calculate this one.
 Right?
 We discussed that you first need to calculate the information gain or entropy of the final
 class.
 And the formula for that one is you will pick up the samples for one class.
 So here, for example, there are two possibilities, mammal and bird.
 Right?
 And then you will count how many total do we have?
 Seven.
 How many total mammals do we have?
 Three.
 So minus three by seven log base two of three by seven minus four.
 Why four?
 Because the other class, which is bird, has four count.
 By seven, which is the total count of your data set log base two of four by seven.
 And eventually you will get this one.
 And then we discussed you need to calculate the entropy of all the attributes and to
 calculate the entropy of your individual attribute, you first need to calculate the entropy of
 the all of its possible values.
 Say for the color one, it has two possibilities, brown and white.
 And once we have those entropies, then we add them up.
 That would be the overall entropy, overall gain of your color attribute.
 And then you will take a difference of the individual information gain of an attribute
 to the information gain of the whole class, the final class.
 Right?
 And you will do this one for all the attribute, for all the features.
 And then whosoever the attribute will have the highest probability, highest value, you're
 going to choose that particular attribute to be selected here.
 So we did for the final class, which is here, and then we did it for the color.
 For the color, it has brown and white.
 First we did for the brown.
 So how many browns do we have?
 We have three browns here.
 Out of the three browns, how many are mammals?
 How many are the birds?
 So out of these three mammals, out of all the three browns, the one is mammal, this
 brown is mammal, this brown is bird, and this brown is bird.
 So one is the mammal.
 So one by three, log base two of one by three, same formula here.
 And minus two by three, because out of three brown color, you have two birds.
 And out of three brown color, you have one mammal.
 And similarly, you will do for the white color, because for the white color, you will see
 all the values are same.
 White is mammal, white is sorry, white is mammal, and then white is bird, then white
 is mammal, and then white is bird.
 So two equal possibilities.
 And if you will evaluate this way here, you will get the value one.
 And that's what we are not doing that one.
 And the other thing we discussed, if for all the value, you have one value and there is
 no instance exist for the other one, then you will straight away mention it zero as
 we did for the fly yes.
 Because if you will see fly yes here, yes is bird, yes is bird, yes is bird.
 So there is no contradiction.
 And if you will calculate its entropy, it will come to zero.
 So you can do the calculation and evaluate it first, but that is the short way we did
 it.
 And then for the no, similar way you calculate it.
 And then you calculated the overall and then took the difference and the color got 0.02
 and fly got 0.5, 5 is high.
 So that's why we got to choose fly as the root attribute.
 And similar way you have to repeat this process for the whole one.
 And that's what we did in our last class as well, where we actually did this one with
 this one.
 So I want to really appreciate and thanks to Louise and Fadi who actually did all the
 calculation and the solution for both of them are available into the announcement.
 So please have a look and if there would be any contradiction, any question, please let
 me know.
 Okay.
 Coming back to the start of my lecture where I mentioned two issues.
 One is that with this the C entry you will not able to find and you will not able to
 get the probability.
 So that is we are going to stop it here.
 Before going into that one, some of you have implemented one model in your first assessment,
 which we call it as Ensembling technique.
 Ensemble means where you are actually mixing multiple models.
 So for example, if Louise has to take admission or to go to Australia, for example, or just
 to go out of from whatever the country he belongs, he discussed with one person where
 should I go.
 Somebody advised him to go for Australia, for example.
 And somebody else came and say, okay, you can go to Canada.
 Somebody else came and then they advise go to Australia, it's good and weather is good
 and blah, blah, blah.
 Right.
 And then Louise now is feeling very easy and confident as well to make a decision for Australia
 because he got the two votes for Australia and one for Canada, for example.
 Similarly, if he plans to come to Australia and then somebody else, okay, wait to which
 university to choose or which program to choose, for example.
 So similar way he discussed with multiple people and then he took the voting, like voting
 means somebody suggested to go here, somebody go there, there.
 He took the majority voting to make a decision.
 Now he is feeling more confident that a lot of people sports into that one.
 So it means he is making a right decision, that is what ensemble learning is.
 You have not just one model, you will have multiple models and you will give the single
 test sample to one model, number one.
 Right.
 And the same to the second, same to the third one.
 Now first set say yes, second set say yes, third set say no.
 So you got two yeses.
 So you are 66% sure to make a decision.
 Right.
 Now these models could be the same model and it could be different as well.
 Right.
 Maybe some data set you choose to train one DC entry, another chunk of data set you choose
 to train the second DC entry, another chunk of data set you try to choose and train the
 third DC entry.
 And then you give the one test sample to all of these three DC entries.
 Right.
 And then you took the voting and you assign the final label.
 The other thing could be you have multiple models here.
 Right.
 First model would be the DC entry, second could be logistic regression, third could be
 sport vector machine, another could be artificial neural network and so on.
 Right.
 Now you got it from there.
 So it could be multiple models are the same model with different kind of data sets.
 Right.
 So the important thing is like you have to mix up this one.
 That is important.
 Right.
 And that is what is our agenda of our today's lecture is one of the agendas in sample learning.
 So method that combines multiple learning algorithms to obtain the performance improvement
 over its components, random forest is another algorithm, which is not part of this course,
 but it is 100% you know about it.
 So if you mix up multiple DC entry and from the example which we just discussed, there
 could be one model.
 And if the one model is DC entry, right, you give you have one DC entry here, which is
 trained on some chunk of data set, another DC entry which is trained on a separate chunk
 of data set, a third DC entry.
 It means you are assembling multiple DC entries.
 Note the model name is a random forest and random forest is used for classification purposes.
 Right.
 Now three important things.
 Please pay attention here.
 Very important concepts.
 First is bagging, random subspace method and boosting.
 I'm going intentionally slow.
 So to clarify your understanding in a better way so you can understand.
 Bagging is where you have multiple subset of the data.
 Multiple subset of the data.
 For example, if you have 100 total samples, for example, and you pick up 30 samples to
 train the first DC entry, another 30 out of that 100, you choose to train the second DC
 entry, another 30 you choose to train the third DC entry.
 So first thing, if it is all DC entries, then it is random forest right now within the random
 forest technique is bagging.
 Why bagging?
 Because you are making different subset of the data samples, right?
 The second one is random subspace method where you are running multiple model.
 It could be one model.
 It could be different model.
 That's what we already discussed on a random subset of the features.
 Very important.
 In the bagging, you're going to choose all the 30 rows out of 100 you pick up, for example,
 if you have a data, sorry, if you have a data of 100 patients and out of those 100 patients,
 you have the data for 10 different features.
 There could be biomarkers or medical test reports and so on.
 So those 10 you're going to choose the any of the 30 people for with all of the 10 samples
 and you train one model, then you pick up another 30 people with all the 10 biomarkers
 and you give it to a second DC entry, second model, right?
 That is what the bagging is.
 Now, the random subspace method, which is also called feature bagging, means you have
 to choose, you have to give 100 patient data to all of the three DC entries, not 30.
 All the 100 patients data will be given to the first DC entry, second DC entry, third
 DC entry.
 Now, the difference is with the first DC entry, you are not giving the data for all the 10
 features, you may be given, oh, just give the fever and cough and blood pressure value,
 for example.
 For the second DC entry, where the 100 patient data is going, but only for five other features.
 For the third one, again 100, but five different features data, not all the 10 features.
 That is called the second method, random subspace method, right?
 The third one is boosting.
 We have a detail of each one of this, but before going into detail, I am discussing
 you about the concept.
 Boosting is where you will train your models iteratively.
 What will happen?
 You have a test data and you gave to the model, model gave some prediction, right?
 Say model set based on this feature, person is COVID patient.
 For example, only the few people whom were the COVID was not correctly classified, not
 detected properly, right?
 Now what happens next time, what we will do, we will increase their weight.
 We will see, oh, last time you did not classify them correctly, pay more attention, right?
 Now the weights are increased, attention is increased, right?
 And now you give the test sample to the second model.
 Of course, where there are very high chances where you increase the weight or you put more
 pressure, more attention, you could have classified them correctly.
 But maybe some other samples might be misclassified.
 Now in the next phase, you will increase their weight and then you will retrain your model
 with the updated revised weight, right?
 That's how the boosting works, right?
 So bagging is you are making subset of data.
 This is a random subset of the features and this is the iterative process, right?
 Random forest, which we already discussed that is in simple learning of decision trees.
 Instead of building a single decision tree, use it to make prediction, build many slightly
 different decision trees and combine their prediction, that is random forest.
 Now the two concepts came again.
 One is bagging.
 Bagging is the short form of bootstrap aggregating.
 And what is that?
 You will take a random subset of the data points from the training set to create n smaller
 data set and then on each of the subset you will have, you will fit a decision tree on
 it, right?
 The second is random subspace method, which we discussed is also called feature bagging,
 where you will fit n different decision trees.
 Again, there are multiple decision trees, but each of them is using to operate on a
 random subset of the features.
 For example, here you will say you have a training set here and say 100 samples you
 have here and out of that one you will divide them into 30 different subset.
 30 here, 30 here, 30 here.
 Randomly you choose 30, 30 out of those 101.
 For the one you choose 1, 5, 9, 11, 12, 50, 51, 52.
 Randomly choose and make it 30 and you have this subset and for this one you actually
 constructed a decision tree here.
 Now this decision tree is ready here.
 This is the first decision tree, second decision tree, third and fourth.
 Right, now you have a test sample here and you will give all those decision trees which
 you constructed here all four to classify.
 And this one classified, this is an apple, apple, orange, apple.
 And you took the voting.
 Voting is 75% confidence.
 You mentioned this is an apple.
 This is bagging.
 Right, the second one is feature bagging or random subspace method where you have a training
 data set like here.
 I mentioned like for example you have here 100 patient data and for all of them you have
 different features.
 Feature bagging is you will give all 100 to the first decision tree but with few features.
 Maybe for the first one you consider only color and mass, for the second one you give
 texture and pH value, for the third one you give pH and mass for example.
 You build up a decision tree based on that one.
 When that decision tree is ready, the model is ready, you will give a test sample to all
 these three decision tree trained on multiple subset of the features, right, not on the
 data, on the features.
 And now they classify this thing.
 And then you took the voting and you assign the particular label.
 So in both of these examples, first thing is we are applying in sampling where just
 not one model exists there but multiple could be different form of one of the algorithms
 or could be different models even, right.
 And here it is random forest which we discussed, right.
 Then boosting, boosting we discussed is an iterative process, right.
 And in this one we discussed you will use this data set, you will train a model and
 then after that training the model is trained, you will have a test data here, right.
 You will give this test data to this particular model, right.
 And you will get a result say for example apple, right.
 And then you identified it is not you are not considering what output they have, you
 will definitely consider because that is what you need to take the vote at end.
 So some of the samples were misclassified and then you increase their weight, you retrain
 another model here.
 Maybe those could have been classified correctly but some others have been misclassified.
 Now you got the output here as well because you got the apple here, you got the apple
 here for example and then you would retrain it again with the revised adjusted weight
 and again you got the orange here.
 Then you will take the average of this one.
 So this one you retrain it, adjusted the weight and then with this one you actually got the
 output and this one and then all of them got this one.
 So this way you can see that you got the boosting.
 You got the boosting here.
 So in this way you can retrain your model.
 Professor, I have two questions so we can pause.
 So the first one is if you use the test data set you won't have another like test data
 set? No, you will give the same test data, same test data.
 Okay, yeah because if you are giving the different test data then you can't compare.
 But in that case we can have some higher chances to have overfitting?
 Could be a chance, that's true.
 Because you see that the overfitting is when your model is learning the bad things.
 But we are not actually letting the model to learn the bad things.
 So for example if you have been trained, you have been brought up from the example which
 I have given could be personal example maybe understandable for few of you then you would
 say this is good, this is good joke, this is the joke which you can do with the friend,
 this is the one you can do with the family, with your parents and then if somebody is
 not doing that one right so we are not letting you to be overfitted.
 Means overfitted is when you learn the noise and the good and the bad things all together
 and you say everything is good right but we are if you are not understanding you are making
 that joke with the family we are giving you emphasis that this is the not the joke which
 you can do with the family. We are just putting a pressure on the things to get it right or what
 is wrong we are putting the pressure there. Overfitting is when you are mixing both things
 but when you are adjusting the weight it means the emphasis on the same thing is improved
 not on the other things. You getting my point John?
 Right so if you are saying this is good thing and this is bad thing and you are learning both
 as good or both as bad for example then it means you are doing overfitting means you learn the
 noise and you did a lot of learning from your data and then you learn the noise as well which
 you consider is good for example and now somebody will ask you in the test time what is good what is
 bad and now you learn everything as good and no you are not able to answer it correctly that is
 overfitting but here the emphasis would be if somebody that the good thing to be classified as
 good and bad thing to be classified as bad but if you are not predicting it correctly
 either it is good either it is bad so we are putting you more emphasize and you are putting
 more pressure you are giving more attention to that particular thing that this is good and you
 have to make it good and this is bad you have to make it bad right so it means you are putting
 pressure on the individual things it is not the learning that you learn something else as well
 you are learning the same thing to understand it to memorize it that I have to do it correctly
 or this is bad I have to negate it I have to classify it bad right so that is what here
 so the chances of the overfitting could be there like maybe with the others that are said but not
 that much due to that in sampling technique right so you might be confused because you are learning
 too much on the same data set and that is what the chances of the overfitting is improved but
 in that one the learning is that sense is that you are not getting distinguished between good and bad
 but here it's not good or bad difference is the thing where you are actually emphasizing on
 the good to be classified as good and bad to be classified as bad I hope I have cleared the point
 yeah well 100 and I just wanted to state that I use it rental forest on my assessment number one
 and just sharing that SKlearn abstracts the real machinery behind for example I never wrote bagging
 or RCM on my assessment submission but I understand now while you were explaining that there are
 defaults when they pass the regression in there with the bootstrap equals true and with the max
 features as well so super interesting to get that under theory perspective yeah so that is what
 boosting bagging and feature bagging difference is right so I repeat one more time again here
 in sampling is where you are mixing multiple models in order to get their
 input what are those things and it could be one model it could be different models
 and for the second assessment we gonna apply this in sampling learning we gonna apply random forest
 as well and which I will give a little bit more details when we will discuss about second
 assessment and the other thing is bagging is where you have one data set and you are making multiple
 subset of the major data set and each of the subset you are training a different model
 could be one model and then from there you gonna actually test them right and then eventually you
 gonna take the voting for the feature bagging which is random subspace method basically you
 gonna take the whole data set you are not dividing the you are considering all the rows all the
 individuals but for the features now you are taking the subset of the features right so when
 you take the subset of the features in that case you gonna actually train a different models and
 based on that one you gonna do that one and the boosting is where you have one model you get the
 output some prediction some misclassification you will adjust the waste for those samples
 retrain your model again and then again test it and then retrain again test it and then eventually
 you get the voting finally right so all of these techniques and other methods as well which are not
 discussed which is not part of this course here as well even I think in sampling is not part of
 machine learning course but if you will say I got a distinction in machine learning and somebody
 else okay what is in sampling and you say oh in sampling come run hasn't taught us so that is why
 I discussed few of the methods here so you would actually understand the concepts and also apply
 for your second and third assessments as well so what is the takeaway of of these in sampling
 the stuff so far the C-entry which we have discussed right so take away the
 easy the the the C-entries are very you can use it for different purposes can use for we have
 discussed whatever the classification example we discussed you can apply the C-entry for all of
 them right but the thing in the things which we need to focus is the two things that if you will
 increase the accuracy then you need to increase the trees and if you will increase the trees
 eventually you will increase the time complexity and space complexity as well right and then once
 you have more number of the C-entries it can slower down means your speed efficiency detection
 would be decreased the time would be decreased right and then the two things which we mentioned
 if you have to construct one the C-entry if you have to answer one test data you need to construct
 the whole the C-entry and second is you can't tell the probability what is the likelihood of that one
 right so that is the thing which we we discussed so far so a lot of members now join the class now
 so if i give you five minutes to have a look to the two important things one is to tell me
 what are the shortcomings of the C-entry algorithm second is what are the applications
 of the C-entry algorithm right and what is ensemble learning so just three questions if you
 give a few minutes to understand these one which would be really good and then we will start about
 the naive Bayes algorithm right so i write the question here to clarify if there would be
 anything why i'm giving this time because sometimes if you will read anything about
 these models these algorithms and later on if any specific terms come up there any terminologies
 there you might not able to understand it properly or if you build up your understanding on the
 writing whatever is available on the literature and if it is not aligned then you can tell me okay
 this is what i understood but the meaning of this sentence looks different to me so can you explain
 is there a problem in my understanding or is the problem into the writing right so three things
 which we need to search limitations are the shortcomings of the C-entry
 algorithm applications of the C-entry and the third one is in assembling learning so take few
 minutes maybe maybe max 10 minutes right so we will come back at 12 40 so whatever the answer
 you get for these three quan please paste here into the chat okay right everybody aware sleeping
 ali here in our two sudeep jon search for these three and paste your answer here one two three
 okay and it's not just copy and paste here try to understand the thing is try to understand if
 you could not understand just mention i could not understand can you please clarify i'm happy to do
 that one okay so it preserved
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 yeah sorry i mistakenly entered so i just updated now
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 so sudeep mentioned that limitations are the cnt is easy to understand is this the limitation
 okay but it has some drawbacks it can overfit the training data good which means learns the data
 too closely and may not work well with the new data so that is another issue which is the basically
 the overfitting in the overfitting what happens that the model actually has the limited amount
 of data and due to which what happens it did not generalize properly means it did not understand
 that there is something else there or maybe it hasn't seen the test data for example what
 happens that you have a 100 patient data out of those 100 patient maybe 80s patients are
 from australia and 20 comes from a different country i don't want to name any country comes
 from a different country where there is a different strain of covid exist for example
 and if you build up a model using the first 80 patient data to classify whether the person
 is a covid patient or not a covid patient so if you will give those 20 symbol patients
 data to test your model will not give you a good accuracy why because those 20 samples
 are different and those have not been added into the training of your model means you
 haven't considered them during the training now how you can imagine that it will give
 good accuracy on that data which is had as hasn't learned properly for example if somebody
 is living at home and know how the things works within the home and so on and if you
 if you go to a professional life which is totally different you can't say oh i handle
 this family problem this contradiction or complications with the sibling for example
 i can also do in my industry as well into my company as well for example maybe you can't
 do it because you haven't have any professional experience to working in a professional context
 the things work different there right and then maybe you will not perform better there
 so that could be another issue there it is also sensitive to the small changes or even
 a small change in the data can create a different areas you can imagine if there is a yes value
 you will have a different subtree and if it is a no there is a slight change into that
 one you can imagine you could have a totally a different decision tree health care the
 applications in health care doctors banking marketing behavior yes ensemble learning is
 good yeah thank you sudeep then louise mentioned overfitting multi value bias weak probability
 of applications are in credit medical and churn rice and then a method combining models
 for better so good thank you louise rinato application medical to rational rule yes limitations
 overfitting ensemble awareness mention applications in credit scoring fraud detection and solubin
 mention limitations overfitting the c entry can create complex models and through so in
 all of these one we understood now what the c entry is what are its applications how it
 could give benefits into different areas of life we also understood its limitations we
 we know what is in sampling what is random forest how they works and everything with
 these one i want you to emphasize on two things one is the to answer one sample test test
 data you need to construct the whole to see entry and the second one is you want able
 to know what is the probability what is the likelihood of particular case whether it is
 yes what is the probability if it is no what is the probability so with having this one
 we can now discuss about the naive base algorithm right naive base algorithm is basically a
 statistical classifier which will give you a probabilistic predictions for that one it
 works based on the base theorem right and this is the base theory right so x be our
 test set h be your hypothesis right and with the probability that you will say oh this
 particular sample belong to this class what is the probability just imagine if this will
 be assigned to this class what is the probability and so on so we straight away go to the question
 the question is here that the class has bias computer yes and no and this is the data to
 be classified where the age value is less than 30 income is medium student is yes credit
 rating is fair so which class you will assign whether you will that person will buy the
 computer are will not buy the computer of course if you have to answer this question
 from a decision tree perspective you need to construct the whole decision tree you need
 to calculate the entropy value for this particular class then you will calculate the entropy
 for this one for this one you need to calculate the entropy for fair excellent and so on and
 then the overall would be for credit rating then you will take its difference here then
 you will do the same process for the other features and then you will gonna select only
 a single root node and then you have a different subset different branches based on whatever
 the feature you choose and so on but with the naive Bayes algorithm this is very easy
 right so imagine this is the test sample which we need to answer just pay attention for few
 minutes and you will be easily understanding how it works this is the age value is less
 than 30 income is medium student is yes and credit rating is fair we need to answer this
 sample whether that person will buy his computer are will not okay first we will calculate
 the probability of the overall class how many yeses are here out of the 14 9 are yes so
 you can see here yes 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 and 9 so 9 yeses are here out of the 14 and this
 is the probability for a sample to be yes and how many are no 5 by 14 because we left
 with 5 so 5 by 14 this is the probability now it says that the age value is less than
 30 so you will see if the age value is less than 30 how many bias computer are yeses right
 so how many 30 we have we have 1 2 3 4 and 5 out of this one this 30 is no this 30 is
 again no this 30 is again no this 30 is yes and this less than 30 is yes so you have 3
 nos here and 2 yeses so 2 yeses 2 by 9 total 9 yeses are there out of that one 2 are with
 less than 30 look the other way around right so this is the probability out of the 5 nos
 one how many are less than 30 3 right and so the probability is this one here right
 now for the same one income value is medium how many are yeses so out of 9 yeses you will
 see 4 of them has income as medium and out of the 5 nos like you have a no here no here
 you have a no here no here and no here credit rating is medium so this is excellent this
 is fair this is excellent this is excellent this is fair right and this is about the income
 income is for this no it is high for this no it is high we are not considering that
 one we are just considering the the medium one so you will say out of the 9 yeses how
 many has the income value as medium so 1 medium here 2 3 4 5 and 6 there are total 6 mediums
 right this medium is no as you can see here let me select the laser this medium is no
 this medium is yes this medium is yes this medium is yes so 1 2 3 yeses 1 no this medium
 is no so 3 yeses 2 nos this medium is yes so 4 yeses and 2 nos here so you calculate
 the probability for this one similarly if the student is yes means they are the student
 so after yes you have yes here yes no here yes yes here you will calculate and you will
 do this one right so now what happens this one which you calculated for the yes the attribute
 value you will multiply this with this yes with this yes with this yes and this no one
 will multiply with this no with this no and with this no so whatever the answer you will
 have for the yes whatever the answer you will have for the no for the yes one you gonna
 multiply with this yes and for the no one you will multiply with this no right as we
 did here so 0.22 is for this yes now select the laser this 0.2 into 0.44 here right then
 0.66 here then 0.667 again here and you calculate the probability similarly for no 0.6 here
 0.4 here then 0.2 here and then 0.4 here and you get the value here now whatever the yeses
 value you have 0.044 this you gonna multiply it with the 0.643 and this 0.019 will be multiplied
 with the 0.357 right and then the answer for the yes you will get is 0.028 and with the
 no you will get 0.007 who has the highest one of course 0.028 which is the label is
 yes so firstly for this class you gonna assign the label yes and the probability is also
 this one so for this one you have actually answered those two questions you have just
 calculated and math is easy you haven't need so many memory as you require to construct
 and hold the C entry because for all of the answers you need to keep holding that C entry
 into the memory otherwise you can't answer right so you have 100 samples to predict so
 you will see if you have constructed a huge the C entry you need to hold it into the memory
 but for this one it is quick calculation is more quicker as compared to if it is involve
 some other medium to hold and store and then answer the question from there please have
 a look to this calculation if you could not understand then let me know.
 Thank you.
 [Applause]
 [Silence]
 anybody has any confusion I repeat it again for you guys that if there is one test sample
 and for that one you need to answer which label has to assign using the name base algorithm
 which says that you need to calculate the probability for each of the sample and you
 will first calculate for the final class which is has two labels no and yes so you will calculate
 for yes and no's and then for each of the value of the test sample you just consider
 that one you will totally ignore the other values so age has three different values less
 than 30, 31 to 40 and greater than 40 you are not considering anything related to 30
 to 40 or greater than 40 just considering less than equal to 30 and in that one you
 will have the value here for the less than 30 how many are the yeses out of the nine
 yeses two are less than 30 out of the five no's three of them are less than 30 and then
 with the bias computer no how many has the value income as medium how many five no's
 has the value medium income value and then once you calculate you will multiply all the
 features yes values between this two two with this one with this one with this one and similarly
 for the no one as well the answer you gonna multiply the yes one with the yes and with
 whatever the no you have got you will multiply it with the no and then whosoever will has
 the high probability you gonna assign that particular label to this test sample right
 okay any any confusion any question so far good here okay okay now if everything is clear
 now the next thing is please calculate the label and the probability for this test sample
 which is here using this data set the same data set please show the same calculation
 as I did here and take a screenshot take a picture and share into the chat for this test
 sample what would be the label what would be the probability age is 31 to 40 income
 is low student is yes credit rating is excellent please do these calculations and share your
 result into the chat.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 So Louis shared so what level you are going to assign it is the one that is not zero then
 yes one device computer 0.0329 right which is for the bias computer yes yes correct the
 final result I multiplied by 0.643 and got the 00211 then you move toward 9 then because
 no is zero right no zero correct okay we wait somebody else as well to double check the
 right.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Yes anybody else if finished the calculation please do share.
 I have a question yes please what if we don't have the answer so what if it was prediction
 outcomes sorry I could not get what do you mean by this so let's say we know that we
 have 14 we know that nine say yes and five say no or five there is no if there is no
 exist here so for example if doesn't have any probability here so you will assign zero
 for example means doesn't exist any simple no no that's not what I mean so let's say
 that's a business for a computer store and that's what he that's what his data is yes
 all right but if he's starting the business and he wants to know how many he will sell
 this month for example he will sell nine and he cannot sell five because the credit score
 of the age or something like this that is another question that is not a classification
 problem so you mean for example the events in advance yeah for example I give you two
 examples so immigration says that in 2021 we have this much students came from a particular
 country are entered into Australia for example and this is the historic data for the last
 five years what you can predict for the next five years for example this is the stock exchange
 share price historic data for the last two years and then can you predict what would
 be the stock exchange share price for example whether I would go to buy it or not buy it
 and so on right that is another problem that is not a classification problem so for that
 one you would use for example lstm long shirt short term memory for that one they need to
 memorize what was happening to the previous event what happened afterwards what happens
 afterwards and then you have to predict right and that is a totally a separate question
 that is not a comes under this naive base algorithm yeah I know it's separate I was
 just thinking about some different yeah yeah yeah you you definitely can do but but in
 that case that of course if you are predicting for example the medium how many medium you
 could have so in that case you made the income as your attribute not the computer buys so
 it means that is a totally a different case study and for that one you have to explore
 lstm or rcnn and other algorithms which actually most of them used into the nlp area as well
 natural language processing because in natural language processing if you have said come
 on is the good boy and then you say you say she gets up early in the morning and there
 is an issue because you said come on is a boy then you must have to use he why you using
 she so it means to in order to correct that one whether it should use he or she or his
 or him or her you have to memorize the previous event and that is what in your generative
 AI and chat gpt they they does it right because they need to store what they have said previously
 and then they have to quote and they have to memorize everything up till the end the
 context would be same so that is a total subset different subset of the problems and the algorithms
 and I don't think so we have anything in our machine learning course at the moment but
 I have like we are revising this machine learning course and definitely I have one or two lectures
 for generative AI which Louise may know that I have given something a talk in your intelligent
 system course in last term related to the generative AI and different kind of tools
 but that is not part of this machine learning course so definitely I will also include that
 one because there you might have simply discussed about those things but here I will integrate
 in the future terms the implementation of those things with simple example for everyone
 to understand. You got the answer Farideh? No actually I haven't but I'll try again.
 Okay. So Sullivan also. So your calculation Sullivan is same as of Lewis Renato your one
 is also same as Lewis. No contradiction. Lewis can you confirm? Apparently similar to Sullivan's
 one. But for Renato is a little bit different but also states by computers yes it's bigger
 than the zero on the no. But it's slightly different on the numbers. Okay so now with
 this one like now we have the calculation there could be some issue with the minor change
 into the probability value but we have got roughly these answers here right. Now whatever
 the Lewis has mentioned let me share that one R Renato has shared let me download for
 any of them. Both of them did okay great job and maybe I can take a snippet of this one
 here. One sec please. So before going into the detail I'm going to tell you very important
 thing here. As you can see here from the this slide that this is very important please pay
 attention here. You can see if this value is 0.2 to 0.44, 0.66, 0.66. Say you have no
 sample for less than 30 pi's computer is yes. So what you will do here you will put zero
 here right and this value would be zero. Everybody agree with this one right and this value is
 0.6. This value is 0.4 which is quite similar to this one which is 0.2 the no one which
 is 4 less than 0.6 right. This no again is for less than the positive one right. So in
 most of the cases are all of the cases except one case the value for the yes is higher right.
 But because of the single digit zero all of the value result would be zero and the other
 class which may have all these 0.00003 probability you're going to choose that one to assign
 that particular label. That is what you will do and that is what you have done here right.
 Because for one of the class if you will see you do not have any samples there right. As
 you can see here
 you have 0.6 probability here 0.3. Then this is 0.4, 0.3, 0.6, 0.3. But the other class
 which has the probability value which we can see here 0.6, 2, 2 and because of this zero
 eventually you're going to get the zero here. You're going to get the zero here. Agree.
 And the other one which may not have higher value you're going to choose that particular
 label to be assigned to that test sample right. So, the point which I want to make is just
 because of this zero so all of the value is going to be zero. You're going to eliminate
 that one. Maybe the example which I have given to you guys is as you can see here in all
 of the cases your no class is less than the yes class. But because of this zero you're
 going to have all the value to zero and you're going to go for the second class, second label
 right. And this may not be right for most of the cases. I hope if I have clarified my
 point I repeat it one more time. You are calculating the probability for all the yes for all the
 nos and yes is far higher than the no. But one of the value of the yes is zero. So, of
 course when you're going to multiply that one the probability would be zero. The final
 aggregate probability would be zero right just because of one zero. Otherwise for all
 other cases the yes probability is far higher than the no one but still you're going to
 choose the label no right. This may not be the right indication in most of the cases
 right. And this is the problem with this naive Bayes algorithm. And we call it as zero probability
 problem. As we have highlighted the other issues, limitations, shortcomings of the C
 entry algorithm. This is the main drawback of naive Bayes algorithm. The problem of the
 zero probability. So, if somebody asks you what is the zero probability problem. So,
 you can say in the test data for the values different values of the features we have to
 investigate and we have to calculate. But for one of the sample of the features we don't
 have any sample exist in your data set. Eventually it will lead towards you the zero probability
 and eventually that zero will make all of the result to be zero which may not be the
 true right. So, I may not be strong enough right but you just mentioned okay sometimes
 most of you might be come from as an international student right. And when you go for a job normally
 they will ask you on which visa you are in. You will say on a student visa. Doesn't matter
 you have 10 years of software industry experience. You are very good in programming. You are
 very good. You have been qualified from a very good university. You have the right certification.
 But just because you do not have the working rights the full working rights they will not
 shortlist your applicant. Any such case happen with any one of you. Yes. Right. So, only
 just one point is making you out of that race. But that may not be the true. If we will give
 you the few working rights we just suppose that without with having zero working rights
 still you have 40 hours for example. We just increase right. So, just in case you have
 few working rights few hours. And now if somebody will be compared with your profile definitely
 your profile would be higher. Because you were just lacking in one of them which we
 handle that one to give you the few hours few hours as a working rights. And now if
 you will be compared your profile would be compared you will be far higher than the other
 candidates. Agree with this solution Louis? Yep. That is what the solution of this zero
 probability is. So, zero probability solution is if any of the samples does not exist in
 your data set and its probability is going to be zero you just assume you just assume
 it is not zero it is 0.0000001. Right. So, if the other points other values are higher
 and just because of this zero if you are getting the overall value zero no you will not get
 zero. Right. And even this minor value this 0.1 probability this 0.001 probability will
 not give you any advantage on others. Right. So, if suppose I give you the 40 hours working
 rights per week and it will not make any more like superior performance on your profile.
 So, it is not they are going to choose oh no you have the 40 hour working rights now
 Louis your profile is far more higher than the others. No. If still you have a very good
 competitors if their profile is really very good and you are just being disadvantaged
 due to the working rights. So, giving you the working rights will not make you to be
 selected there. But just to give you a chance that you will not get the disadvantage we
 give you the few working rights to have a fair comparison not just to be eliminated
 out of that rate just because of the one of the features. Right. And that is what the
 solution of the zero probability is and that is what you have faced here in this particular
 example where you see that if you have the age value is this and income is low. Right.
 And student value is yes. You will when you will solve this one. So, you will see bias
 computer value is no is zero. And once you will multiply with this value with this value
 with this value. Right. And eventually you will get the zero value. Right. So, even though
 you have included to make it zero make it 0.1. So, this will solve the zero probability
 problem. Right. So, even though the value is still lower. Right. But you will not be
 surprised that you might have lost a very good candidate. Right. So, just because of
 the one feature you are not ignoring the other one and you see that doesn't make much sense
 much advantage to be added into in comparison to this one. Even it is zero one still because
 it is lower zero point two zero point two is lower than this zero point two is lower
 than this one zero point one is lower than this one. This one is equal. OK. Ignore this
 one still no is lower. Right. So, even you see this zero point one did not add much into
 the final decision. But just suppose if this would have been zero. Right. And this have
 been zero point one suppose. Right. This is zero. So, it means this would be zero. So,
 it means this one is far higher zero point two is higher less than zero point three again
 zero point six is much higher. So, yes is getting higher. But just because of this zero
 you gonna make the final decision to be zero and you gonna assign the other class. But
 if you just give its value to zero point one here and know if you will calculate then you
 will see this one would be the highest and you reach on the final decision. Right. And
 that is the solution of this Naive Bayes Algorithm problem of the zero probability. Right. Any
 question so far here I will speak here. So, in our today's class we have discussed various
 concepts we first started with the decision tree and classification algorithm we discussed
 that classification is where you have the type of attribute of your label is categorical
 in nature and if it is just two outcomes then it is binary classification if it is more
 than two then you have multiclass classification then we discussed about the issue of decision
 tree we discussed what decision tree is how it has been constructed and so on and we discussed
 that using the decision tree you need to hold the whole decision tree into your memory all
 the time and then even if you have to answer one thing you need to hold the whole decision
 you need to construct you need to hold the whole decision tree into your memory so that
 comes with a lot of overhead memory overhead computational sources are required and so
 on and the second is you weren't able to know the probability value the likelihood the chances
 of that label to be assigned what are the chances right so you can't know using the
 decision tree algorithm then we discussed the Naive Bayes algorithm which comes and
 solve this problem for that one you just need to apply the Bayes theorem which will solve
 this problem quickly you just have to work with whatever your test data values are and
 multiply the values and get the results and everything and then we discussed still with
 this Naive Bayes algorithm you have a problem of zero probability where maybe for one of
 the class maybe the samples doesn't exist for one of the features but due to that one
 the overall probability will become zero to handle that problem we just assign a very
 minor value that if just in case the other values of that class is highest so maybe we
 not being disadvantaged to this class and even contributing that probability value to
 be 0.1 will not give it much preference so if it is no it will still be no if it is yes
 if still will be yes and then we also discussed about the assembling learning in sampling
 is where you are mixing up the output from the multiple models one method is bagging
 where you will make different subset of your data and you give those subsets to your multiple
 models could be one model could be same model and could be one model as well if it is just
 one model which is decision tree and you have multiple decision tree then you have a new
 modifier which we call them as random forest and then if you will have considered the whole
 data set but you will make a selection on the features then it is called random subspace
 method also called feature bagging and the third one is the boosting where you will give
 the data to one of the model you get the output the misclassified samples weight would be increased
 adjusted and then you do the classification and you keep doing that process and evaluate
 the outcomes and take the voting at the end that is your boosting with these one if you
 have any any questions any any doubt in your mind
 Just wanted to ask one question Dr. Caron regarding the add one part that you mentioned
 I understand that these can be relate this is related to the Laplace smoothing so we
 consider all the features of the model to explore everything right just thinking about
 the concept of it am I correct on that yes yes yes okay
 any other question you may have okay with this one now we are going to look up some
 other important things this is related to Nebase and for that one we will see the Nebase
 exist here and with this one you have a Gaussian Nebase you can use different variants of Nebase
 algorithm one is simple Nebase with the Gaussian NB then you have multinomial then you have
 complement NB then you have Bernoulli NB and categorical NB you can explore all of these
 one though you don't need to understand each one of them just the their values are changed
 but you can explore this one for your second assessment right just a minor difference one
 line difference and you can implement all of these four versions of Nebase algorithm
 I have already shared the URL of all of these one right so here when you say s k learn Nebase
 and import Gaussian Nebase right you will have the same lines of the data set splitting
 everything here you will create an object of Gaussian Nebase and you will use that object
 to fit the model and if you have the multinomial Nebase you just have to import the multinomial
 you don't and here you need to create the object of that one if you are doing the Bernoulli
 Nebase you just need to import it create its object and you will be all same and I don't
 mind you copy this code for your second assessment but I want you to explore as much as you can
 the different kind of models right I also show you another URL here this is Nebase right
 this is also one of your learning activity as well so you will see this is data visualization
 this is data subplating here they important the Nebase algorithm right they created its
 object here right they fit the model you got the accuracy right and now this is the confusion
 matrix this is another example of the implementation of Nebase algorithm these are some additional
 things which you already have explored Seaborn and libraries used for data visualization
 purposes and Matplotlib both are used for mostly for data visualization purposes data
 pre-processing the point is here you're going to import the Gaussian Nebase create its object
 fit the model here and then evaluate the model so you will get the result so very simple
 you just need to change the two lines just is one is where you are importing your model
 second one is while creating the object of that model ok third thing is here Nebase tutorial
 scikit-learn they also discuss the same thing what is Nebase algorithm and the probability
 and how they actually work what you need to do in step one two you need to calculate their
 frequency value and then you need to multiply that one right and once you have this value
 you will get the final result and then you will evaluate the label now they also discussed
 the zero probability problem here right first they gave the implementation just the same
 one which we did before trained a split is same here they did the Gaussian Nebase and
 you just create the you can do Bernoulli you can do other one as well right and the thing
 main thing they have done here zero probability problem suppose there is no
 tuple for our risky loan in the data set in this scenario the posterior probability will
 be zero and the model is unable to make a prediction this problem is known as a zero
 probability because the occurrence of the particular class is zero the solution to such
 an issue is the Laplacian correction or Laplace transformation as the Luis was discussing
 in this one you assume that the data set is large enough that adding one row of each class
 will not make a difference in the estimated probability this will overcome the issue of
 the probability value to zero right suppose there is a class loan risky there are one
 thousand samples suppose in the data set and if it does not exist with that one you might
 add a very minor probability of that one will not make any big difference on the final outcome
 right they have also listed the advantages here it is not it is very not only very simple
 approach but also very fast accurate is a very it needs a it's it has it is a very computationally
 efficient algorithm means it doesn't require a lot of computational cost right it work
 well really on the large data set which was the problem of the DC entry as well because
 you can assume how big the DC entry needs to be constructed and retain into the memory
 while answering all of those test sample and it also performed well in case of discrete
 response variables can work with the continuous and issues are the assumption of independent
 feature in practice most impossible the model will get a prediction which is entirely independent
 and there is no training tuple of a particular class right so if there is no training tuple
 mean the same problem which we discussed this causes zero posterior probability zero probability
 issue mean no sample exist for a particular class during the training right and that is
 what Naive Bayes algorithm is another important thing which I wanna discuss here this is the
 code for that one so you have an iris data set and for that one and this is really helpful
 for you for your second assessment you gonna load your data set here and afterwards you
 will see its head if you will see the head function you will see the first top five values
 right and if you wanna see the first ten values you can insert value ten here in the parentheses
 and you will see the first ten rows and then you will describe your data set and if you
 haven't done this one for your first assessment you can copy paste this code here into your
 second and third assessment then make a plot here different kind of scatter plot and mat
 plot lib using seaborne and so on you can use these code for your second assessment
 if you haven't done any box plot analysis you can use this code for your second and
 third assessment as well right and this one is the pair plot which was required for all
 of your three assessment so make sure if you have done in your first good if you haven't
 done please just copy paste these two lines and you will be all fine for your second and
 third assessment and the other important thing or the most important thing which I am using
 this one is this thing you have a data set right and with this data set you just need
 to import create the object this code would be hundred percent same you just need to change
 these two lines which you can easily implement five to ten models for your second and third
 assessment and by the way most of the student did it for the first assessment as well because
 I advise not just rely on the linear regression you can explore less so and region so on some
 of them implemented sport vector regressor to see entry regressor and other as well and
 for this one you just see they implemented logistic regression now come here the k nearest
 neighbor just need to change these two lines these things are hundred percent same you
 implemented the second one second classification model just change these two lines you implemented
 sport vector machine hundred percent same this one just need to create import to see
 entry implement it simple and with this name base you can implement for neighbors algorithm
 first one they imported the Gaussian neighbors for the follow up one they did the multinomial
 neighbors they did the Bernoulli neighbors just two lines change right and then complement
 neighbors see so here they just show the accuracy for each one of them which one is performing
 really better so you see with just changing the two lines of code you have implemented
 all of these things and all of these URLs I have already sent you in your announcement
 so please keep an eye explore these one and incorporate all of these models for your second
 and third assessment second one is related to classification please start exploring that
 one and third one is related to regression using a different data set and we will discuss
 when we'll reach to that point but the point which I want to make is I want you to use
 the existing resources I'm not asking you to learn each one of them just see what are
 the models available implement this one in your assessment and see what is the performance
 is there any advantage you have got after incorporating those one or not okay yeah so
 since you are all the master students and doing this machine learning course exploring
 new things is not difficult for you and I'm not asking you to learn each one of the things
 just explore which are important try to implement those one and implement as much as you can
 using the existing existing knowledge okay so that's all from my side today do you have
 any question in your mind then maybe you can do the other activities and if not then we
 will see you next week.
 I will thank you for the lecture Dr. Kamara appreciate it thank you thank you professor
 yeah you can also have a look to the announcements here this is the announcement which I already
 shared if you will go to the class click on the announcement you will see here this is
 the C entry and name base and here you will be able to find all the links all the data
 set URL and slides also here you can explore this one right and then you can have a look
 to the activities of this week you can go to week 5 and you can do the activities any
 question please let me know and wish you all the best.
 Thank you thank you professor no questions thank you so much thank you take care thank
 you see you next week thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
