When should you consider using SVM?
Selecting transcript lines in this section will navigate to timestamp in the video
- [Instructor] Now that we have a decent feel for what SVM is on a conceptual level, let's talk a little bit about when you should use it. I want to quickly reiterate what I mentioned when we covered logistic regression. There are way too many variables in play for these to be hard and fast rules. These are merely guidelines. The more comfortable you get with each algorithm, you'll start to get a better feel for which algorithms work best for different types of problems. This is just meant to get you started. SVM can be used for both categorical and continuous outputs, but I've found it to not be very useful for regression. So it really should only be a focus when you're working on a classification problem with some kind of binary target variable. One area where SVM really excels is when the feature-to-row ratio is very high. This is what I called short and fat data previously. It's when you have a lot of features and relatively few rows. Many algorithms will really struggle in this space. But SVM tends to do fairly well, and it's actually one of its distinguishing features. SVM is also quite good at untangling complex relationships, definitely more so than logistic regression is. SVM also handles data with a lot of outliers quite well. If you think about how SVM works using the support vectors, it actually makes sense because it only looks at the points closest to the line, so the outliers are kind of ignored. This is not true of most other algorithms. So if you're working with data with a lot of outliers and many other algorithms are struggling, you might want to consider SVM. Okay, so that's some cases when you should use it. When should you not use it? Well, you should not use it if you have a lot of rows and relatively few features. Typically, SVM will take a long time to train, and the performance really won't be worth it relative to other algorithms. Despite the really nice plots that we saw before, when you're dealing with hundreds of features, and this hyper plane is an extremely high-dimensional space, you can't really get a good picture of what's going on inside of SVM. So if you care about transparency and maybe the significance of predictors, I would probably avoid SVM. Lastly, if you're looking for a quick benchmark model, SVM probably is not the right choice. SVM takes quite a long time to train, and it takes longer than other algorithms to make predictions as well. So you'll really want to avoid SVM if time or maybe compute power is a significant constraint. So in summary, SVM should be used when you have a lot of features, but few rows, or when you have a lot of outliers, or if you just have a lot of complex relationships that you're trying to untangle. But it is quite slow to train. So if you have a ton of data or limited compute power, you might want to look