 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 >> Good morning, everyone.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 >> Good morning.
 >> Good morning.
 >> Good morning, sir.
 >> Good morning.
 >> Good morning.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 >> How are you going with the second assessment?
 Have you started?
 >> The second assessment, I just submitted it last week, previous last week.
 Last week, I couldn't attend the class.
 Yeah, I haven't yet because we had two more, I had two more assignments and
 I have a presentation today.
 So after this one, maybe we'll all sit with it.
 Inshallah.
 >> I got another very good tool.
 What was the name of that tool?
 It's very good.
 Maybe you guys can explore that one.
 It's name is Haygen, H-E-Y-G-E-N.
 This is very good tool.
 In that one, first, you have to give your voice, whatever you say,
 just half a minute.
 And then you give your video, whatever you say.
 And afterwards, you have to give any script.
 >> Okay.
 >> And then it will make a video for you.
 And seems like- >> AI?
 >> Yeah, yeah, yeah, and then it will look like you are speaking.
 So for example, if I record my video, my audio,
 it will understand my official expression and voice related data.
 How much I stress and how I say with how much energy I talk.
 And then afterward, I can just give a script to deliver a lecture.
 And you will assume that Kamran is speaking.
 >> No, really?
 >> Yeah, and sometimes it makes some problem with the official.
 I just captured and developed one video there, but it's really good to explore.
 I can just mention the name here.
 So maybe you can explore later on.
 Sometimes we are not even aware of various AI tools.
 Normally, we say work with cloud and then with chat GPT.
 But there are a lot of different tools.
 For example, I know of one of the tool where you can give your PPT slides,
 and it will generate a script for you.
 >> Okay.
 >> So things are going very easy, maybe we prepare slides.
 Or maybe we give our notebook to any of the tools which can develop slide for us.
 And then give another AI tool who will develop the transcript for
 you based on those slides, and then use this tool in order to develop the video.
 >> Wow, what's that called?
 The presentation is on face-to-face, so I don't know.
 Well, this one, if it was on video, maybe I would have done that.
 Maybe I don't know, maybe teacher wouldn't have approved it.
 >> Yeah, yeah, but I'm just sharing, I'm not asking you to do it.
 >> Yeah, I might use it at my job, maybe, for a small interview.
 I might use it for my job if I have to do any sort of presentation.
 They don't check AIs or anything.
 Sir, I have a small question regarding the assignment one.
 Did you give us any feedbacks on that or not?
 >> Yeah, hopefully maybe tomorrow, a day after tomorrow.
 Because whenever the students submit,
 we normally have ten days, two weeks in order to do that one.
 So we just passed one week.
 So hopefully, by this week, I will be able to share the feedback.
 And then next week, I'm gonna discuss about the assessment two as well,
 what you are supposed to do.
 And also, I will tell you the feedback, discuss the feedback.
 Because most of the things related to assessment one, two, and three are same.
 So stages are same, so it would be good.
 I will explain you how to improve your assessment two.
 And definitely, that feedback will help you out to improve your assessment two.
 >> All right, thank you.
 >> Yes, Padi, Avaz, Hussain, John,
 who are you going with machine learning, any suggestion you have?
 >> Yeah, just- >> So when you go first.
 >> Why so you go first?
 >> No problem, you can ask the question.
 I'll ask later, thanks.
 >> So are we gonna go through assessment two today or next week?
 >> Next week.
 >> Yeah, because then we'll have the feedback from assessment, so
 it would be good.
 I can match, okay, this is the thing where you have to improve.
 So it would be easy for you to map it.
 >> Okay.
 Any feedback, Padi, to how to improve the subject learning, are you going well?
 >> Yep, yep, it's going well.
 >> Yes, Avaz, please go ahead.
 >> Professor, you have mentioned the name of app.
 So we have presentation, I think, for the subject as well.
 So can we use that one?
 I'm just asking.
 >> [LAUGH] I don't think so.
 >> Okay, no, no, that's fine, that's fine.
 >> I was just asking.
 >> Because when we have our presentation and everything,
 because for this particular subject they have actually based on your learning,
 the student learning, right?
 Later on, I'm not against, because my idea is when back in 1990s,
 when they introduced later on the WWW and later on the search engines,
 like Google at that time, people were even against at that time.
 They were saying, we have to go to library and then search the book there,
 get the material there.
 What do you guys are learning?
 We are learning a lot.
 You are just giving the search string and getting the feedback and
 all the material at one point.
 People were against at that time as well.
 Now, nobody will talk about this one.
 And similarly, my idea is same that people know are against AI.
 Why you are using AI, you have to search it by yourself.
 You have to do the things by yourself.
 With the AI, you can do the things quickly.
 Why you are using this one.
 So at one point of time, people will also accept this thing.
 So yeah, and later on, maybe in future, I have planned next year,
 we have to revise our machine learning assessments in a way where we can
 let the student to use the AI to generate code, to capture videos.
 And then we can think one step ahead of that one.
 If I can do one thing easily, like why I have to struggle for that one.
 >> Definitely.
 >> Right, there could be a lot of different learning pathways ahead to
 that one.
 So it's not the case like you have to put your efforts, but
 as of now they have set like no genii or anything.
 It is based on the student learning, right?
 But I'm okay to do with the coding stuff.
 That is why if you will see last time, I have suggested to you different codes.
 I have suggested to you, you can use those one.
 Because for me as a, for you guys as a machine learning engineer,
 I want you to use whatever the material available online.
 But use it with the purpose to improve your assessment,
 to improve more on the learning.
 So you will see for assessment two, for assessment three,
 I will give more focus on the modeling part.
 I will give more focus, not just how many models you have implemented,
 because I have given you the code.
 So what's the point to test that one?
 I will see how you are actually judging different hyper parameters.
 What parameters you have to select?
 Why you think that these set of parameters gave you the best accuracy?
 Why this model has given you the best accuracy?
 It's not you implemented five models.
 I've told you last time, in our last lecture,
 I've told you I've gone through the code, just two lines you have to change, and
 you're gonna implement five different models.
 And then I will not be happy, you have to implement one model,
 you implemented five, really very good.
 No, you have to tell me why you are implementing those five models.
 What benefits you have got?
 What was the issue in one of the models?
 Why do you think like this model has not performed good?
 Where that learning will come, where you learned there were some limitations with
 the decision tree, there was some limitation with the algorithm.
 How you have to improve, they were sensitive to the outliers,
 they were sensitive to the missing data and so on.
 Because in our data set, maybe a lot of values, a lot of columns,
 a lot of fields and they have a lot of missing values, that could be one of
 the reasons this particular model has not performed well there.
 Or you will say, this model has these capabilities that is well aligned with
 this data set, that is why you're thinking that it has outperformed there, right?
 So, and another question for example, if at the end of machine learning course,
 somebody asks you, what do you think what is the best model, right?
 So, you can't say any of the model is the best, right?
 You can say, these models have these limitations, right?
 But you have to apply that one on a particular data set.
 And then you can say, you can't say that here the decision tree outperformed and
 for other model, the decision tree will also perform good.
 No, maybe whatever and the capabilities this particular model has,
 they are actually there into your research problem, into your data set, right?
 And that is why that model performed really good there, right?
 Did not good there because if there is a lot of missing values,
 or maybe you have a sparse data set means that our values are not enough for
 a machine learning model to train on, for example.
 So that could be one of the reasons your model hasn't learned properly.
 For example, if there are only few samples, for example, for
 a fraudulent transaction, or there are a few sample for a COVID patient,
 or there are a few samples for malicious files, and there are hell of different
 non malicious benign files, or legitimate transactions.
 So it means there is a problem of imbalance data set means for
 one of the class you have very few sample for the other class you have a lot of files.
 Right, and for that is the reason your model hasn't learned it properly.
 Say for example, if you are speaking, if you are up for example for
 16 hours, and then in those 16 hours, you are speaking English for only two hours.
 And rest of the 14 hours you are speaking in your native language,
 in Hindi, in Bengali, whatever your native language is, right?
 And then in that case, how can you expect you would be as fluent as you are in your
 native language, you would be in the English as well.
 Because you haven't given the proper time to mean the same case happened with your model
 as well.
 If there are only few samples for the fraudulent transaction or for COVID patient or for malicious
 files, and there are hell of different files, different data set and items available for
 legitimate transaction for benign file, right?
 Then in that case, your model may not learn the minority class properly, right?
 And that could be another reason why a particular model is not performing really well there.
 So there could be a lot of different reasons where you can think of a model can perform
 better or may not perform better there.
 So you have to apply you have to test and then you can say for this particular one,
 this model is outperforming and this is not outperforming.
 So as such, there is no good or best model to that will work for all of the problems.
 Okay, can can I ask some questions?
 Yes, me too.
 Or just wait for the next year, you can ask Yeah, please go right.
 The first thing is that target split because the brief size low quality one below the value
 of six and high quality zero below the value of six as well.
 Is this a typo?
 Yes.
 Okay.
 Right.
 So should be less than six and greater than or equal six.
 Correct?
 Correct.
 And the data set scoop is it combined same as the first one?
 First assessment?
 Right.
 Uh, hyper parameters tuning, is it a manual iteration?
 For me, I would I would suggest you to do the grid search CV, which I will teach you
 in a while and then I will advise you to implement those one.
 But as of now you can do try manually, but I will give you the code, the grid search
 CV code.
 I will explain you how to do it and you can just simply use it and all good.
 Okay.
 All right.
 Thank you so much.
 No worries.
 No worries.
 Okay.
 So any, any other questions, any other feedback anyone has any further thing to discuss?
 It's just during the assignment one I've submitted it.
 And during that time, as I was going through the textbook and matching it, I realized that
 the data set was only for one type of wine.
 So the stratification, basically, I am yet to understand how the strategy, the stratify
 function works when there's like multiple types of wine and they have different volume
 of data set.
 So that's something interested me while I was doing the assignment.
 So what is your question?
 What is your concern related to that one?
 I'm not entirely sure how to implement that type of function when I have multiple types
 of let's say data sets at different volumes.
 It really depends because for this one, red wine and white wine, both have the same number
 of parameters, same number of features and their names are same.
 So as such, there is as such, no problem to integrate both of the data sets, right?
 Because if one is saying student ID, other one is saying student number, or somebody
 has the parameter name as simple ID, then if you will ask them to integrate both data
 sets, then would be problem.
 But in our case, since red wine and white wine data sets, both of these data sets, they
 have, they share the same number, same type of parameters.
 And our problem is not to distinguish between different kinds of wines.
 We are just saying, okay, there is another kind of wine, black, white, red, white.
 The thing is the problem which we are tackling is every wine data set, they have the same
 number of features, type of parameters are same, number of parameters are same, and the
 label is same and the label value, their distribution is also same, right?
 They have a value in the range of 0 to 10.
 And your task is just based on those parameters, you are predicting how much would be the count,
 how much would be the quality of your wine, whether it is now for the second one, it would
 be good and bad, which we will discuss how to actually convert them into a discrete attribute.
 But for the first one, it was just a continuous value, and you just have to simply predict
 it.
 Doesn't matter what kind of wine is that one.
 I see.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay, so as last time we discussed about the decision tree algorithm, we discussed about
 the Naive Bayes algorithm, which we'll also quickly review.
 But for both of those models, both machine learning algorithms, which we have studied
 related to classification.
 So as we discussed, classification is a supervised learning technique.
 In supervised learning, we know the label what we are going to predict.
 And out of that one, if the type of the attribute, if the type of the labels is discrete, then
 it is called classification.
 And if it is continuous in nature, then that is called regression, right.
 And then we discussed that you will apply the decision tree algorithm, you can apply
 random forest, you can apply in sampling, we will also study about logistic regression.
 Today, we will discuss about sport vector machine and so on.
 So in all of these one, we have to see which model is performing really good, as we were
 discussing before, you can't say that this model is performing really well there, and
 this model is not performing well.
 So what are the basis, what are the metrics, what are the measures you have in your minds
 based on which you can actually comparing the performance of your model.
 So the main thing which we normally use for classification and which you will use for
 your second assessment as well is the confusion matrix or the error matrix, right.
 So just discuss those things in order to understand.
 So let me share my screen.
 So here, you can see that you have confusion matrix, also known as error matrix, it is
 a table that really will tell you the performance of any algorithm of any model, right.
 So suppose this is the individual number means you have the data of 12 individuals, 12 patients
 or different personals, and these are their actual classification, actual qualification
 is basically we also call it as ground truth, right.
 And this predictive classification is basically the prediction which is made by your model
 or your algorithm, right.
 So in this case, as you can see here, we have to see which one is.
 So this one is the ground truth means 1 and your model predicted it as 0.
 This is 1, your model predicted it as 0.
 This was 1, your model predicted it correctly.
 Similarly, this was 0, your model predicted it as 1 means misclassification.
 This was 0 and your model predicted it correctly as 0, right.
 Now all of these things could be explained using these 4 measures.
 One is called true positive, true negative, false negative and false positive, right.
 So please just pay attention here, very, I am going to tell you in a very easy way so
 hopefully you will remember and understand it properly.
 The second one is what your model, what your algorithm has given.
 The second letter is what your algorithm, your model has given you.
 The classification made by your model.
 The first character, the first letter tell you whether your model has done the correct
 prediction or wrong prediction.
 I am repeating it again.
 The second letter is what your model has predicted.
 The first letter is whether your model predicted it correctly or not.
 Now I am going to explain.
 Your model predicted it as positive and it is truly predicted means it was positive and
 your model also predicted it as positive.
 True negative, your model predicted it as negative and it is truly predicted means it
 was negative and your model also predicted it as negative.
 False negative, your model predicted it as negative and it is falsely predicted means
 it was actually positive and your model predicted it as negative.
 False positive, your model predicted it as positive and it is falsely predicted means
 it was negative, but your model predicted it as positive.
 Try to understand this one.
 Can I repeat one more time before proceeding?
 I understand.
 What I wanted to clarify is the second letter, it's what the model predicts and the first
 letter is basically what we not predict, we know would be the actual one.
 Any mismatch between those two would result in the false positive or false negative and
 if it matches, it's true positive or true negative.
 True.
 Okay.
 So basically we know the answer from before, what we expect the answer to be and basically
 the second letter is the model telling us what the output is and we just match it against
 that.
 Okay.
 True.
 True.
 True.
 Yes.
 So second letter tells you what your model has predicted and first tells you whether
 your model predicted it correctly or not, right?
 You might hear this term in your life, right?
 When you go to doctor and I got a medical test and they say, oh, you are positive.
 I said, I don't have any such symptoms, right?
 And then they said, oh, we can do another test.
 Basically it's false positive, means it is becoming positive that you have that particular
 disease, but it might be false positive, means you are negative, but incorrectly it has predicted
 you positive, right?
 So before coming to Australia, I was in Norway, I had my x-ray there and so on scan there
 and they said, oh, you might have this particular disease.
 I said, I'm feeling okay, there is such no issue.
 And they said, okay, might be we need to have another test where we can see might be it
 would be a fall positive, for example, right?
 So you might hear this term before.
 So fall positive and what the doctor want to say, medical practitioner want to say,
 oh, it is predicted, predicted it as positive and it is falsely predicted, means maybe your
 model predicted it incorrectly, means it was negative, it is supposed to be negative, but
 your model predicted it as positive, right?
 And that is why you will see this whole line is basically for negatives and this is for
 the positive one.
 So when you have more values here and zero value here, it means all of the negative one
 are correctly classified.
 Once you have zero here and all the values are coming here in this column, then you will
 say your model classified all the positive correctly, right?
 It means none of the positive were classified as negative here.
 Just take few more seconds to understand this analogy which I have given, then I will explain
 it further, okay.
 Now try to understand this particular table here, where there is just a serial number
 of the 12 different personals and this is the actual classification, means this is the
 ground truth and this is what your model has made, right?
 And the first one is false negative, why false negative?
 Just recap the analogy which I have given, your model has predicted it as negative and
 it is falsely predicted, means it was positive, but your model predicted it as negative, say
 for the person who has the cancer, for example, or a particular disease, COVID or dengue.
 So positive one is for that one who has that particular disease and zero who do not have
 those one, right?
 Similarly, true positives means it was predicted as positive and it is truly predicted, means
 it was one and predicted as one.
 Come up here, the last one, it is predicted, it is predicted as negative, means zero and
 it is truly predicted, means it was negative and it is correctly predicted.
 Come up here, the ninth one, it was predicted as positives, means one and it is falsely
 predicted, means it was negative, but it is falsely predicted as positive, right?
 Anyone has any confusion, any questions in understanding these four measures?
 All good?
 Saroj, Sudip, Takunda?
 All good, all good sir.
 Okay, now using these four measures, we actually build up a lot of different metrics, right?
 And this is what they have given example, there was total eight individuals who are
 having the cancer, like these eight, right?
 And four of them were without cancer, right?
 So you can see three of them was negative and it is correctly predicted and only one
 of them who was predicted as positive, means they said, oh, you have a fall positive, right?
 You can imagine if somebody, any medical report say, oh, you have a cancer, you can imagine.
 And these eight individuals out of those eight, six were classified correctly means there
 are the cancer patient and two were said, oh, you are not a cancer patient, right?
 Now using these four measures, we actually build up all these metrics, right?
 Not all of them are being used in the everyday whenever you apply any model, few of them
 are being used.
 So the important one is basically this sensitivity or recall, this is very important.
 So it tells you out of those positives, how many are correctly classified.
 This is very important, the probability of detection or the hit rate.
 This is very important in most of the cases, right?
 For example, you see up here, in this example, if this is not a, suppose it is a cancer patient
 data, right?
 So if these four individuals who are non-cancer individuals, one were correctly classified,
 incorrectly classified, they said, oh, you have a cancer, what will happen?
 He or she will go through some medical test, will redo some of the medical reports and
 finally they will say, oh, there was a fall positive and you are non-cancer person, right?
 But if a cancer patient, those eight one, if you said to two of them, you are not a
 cancer patient, right?
 You are all okay and you let that one to go home, this would be a big disaster, right?
 You can imagine that person may be on a different stage of their cancer, they need very quick
 remedy to fight against that particular disease, right?
 This would be a big disaster if you let that one to go.
 Think about another example, you have benign data, mean non-malicious data, non-virus data
 and you have some malicious files, mean the files, the data which is malicious in nature.
 And then you have stopped few non-malicious files, mean benign files and you predicted
 them as they are the malicious, like one here.
 What you will do?
 You will further investigate into that file, you will see structure and everything, what
 is the normally the cyber security individuals they used to do in order to investigate whatever
 the methods they are applying.
 You will do some further investigation and then you will say, oh, sorry, sorry, this
 file is non-malicious and we let it to go, enter into your system.
 But if you have let any malicious file to be classified as non-malicious, non-cancer
 and you let that file enter into your network, into your computer system, that will be a
 big disaster, that would be a big damage.
 You can think of this example, if there is a legitimate transaction and you stop that
 one, you do some further investigation, you let that person to log in into your system
 and do some further verification, give a call, whether it is you who is making this huge
 transaction and so on, okay, that person might be offended for few time and then they will
 say, oh, why you are asking, I am the legitimate person and then you will clear up that transaction.
 But if there would be any fraudulent transaction and you let it to be happen, imagine how much
 damage it will create.
 Any person who is with the right visa, no issue, enroll into any course and Australian
 government actually stop that individual which normally immigration stop whenever we come
 to Australia and then they will do some further investigation, they will say, oh, you are
 studying and you have an active COE and so on, right, and then they will say, okay, you
 are good to go, there is no issue.
 But if they allow anyone with the fraudulent visa or with any suspicious history and so
 on, enter into Australia, that would be a big disaster.
 So in most of the cases, right, we are very much inclined toward the positive cases and
 we want to see what positive cases are doing.
 We are interested into that one as compared to the negative one.
 Negative one is okay.
 We will do some further investigation, waste some resources, energy, time and so on.
 And that is okay.
 We will finalize, okay, we were on the mistake and we let that person to go.
 But if we have not investigated that fraudulent, that malicious, that illegal personal to let
 it to enter into systems, imagine somebody is doing COVID testing and they say, oh, you
 are a COVID and then you say, I do not want to have any running nose and I do not have
 a fever, they will say, oh, there might be false positive and then they will say, okay,
 you are okay to go.
 But if you will say a COVID person to go into your family, go into any event, just imagine
 what happens five years back when there was a COVID and you let that one to go into the
 society, how much damage it would have been created, right?
 So this metric is very important.
 That is TP over P. Out of the positive, how many you have correctly classified.
 That is the recall, that is the sensitivity, right?
 Sometimes we are interested into the negative as well.
 And that is what the other metric is specificity, right?
 Specificity that is true negative rate.
 Out of all the negatives, these are all the negative one here, right?
 All the negative ones, how many are correctly classified, 3N over N. So this ratio will
 tell you, will give you the specificity, the true negative rate of your model, right?
 The most important one, which everybody will use is your accuracy, right?
 Out of total positive plus negative, how many are correctly classified?
 And that is what the performance of your model, right?
 So you have, for example, total 12, right?
 Out of that one, 6 plus 3, 9 over 12 is basically the accuracy of your model.
 So if you have 8 here, if you have 4 here, means 12 by 12, 100% is what your accuracy
 is.
 Here we have another one, which is balanced accuracy, right?
 And this gives us another research problem, which everybody need to understand and consider
 whenever you go to industry, whenever you apply any machine learning model to solve
 any problem, that is the imbalance data set issue, right?
 So whenever you apply any machine learning model to solve any of the problem, right?
 You basically have to understand some of the problems which are inherent with the machine
 learning, right?
 Same problem could be with the data.
 As we were discussing at the start of our lecture, data may not be sufficient, data
 may have missing values, data may have outliers, data may have noise and so on.
 There could be some other problem with the data implementation and so on.
 But there are a few problems with come with AI, right?
 Like for your understanding, maybe I can say, oh, chat GPT, helping a lot, but ethical issues.
 Ethical issues are coming.
 How you are actually using, what are dos, what are don'ts to whenever you are using
 the chat GPT, whenever you are using any gen AI tools, generative AI tools, right?
 What you should do, what you shouldn't do.
 So that is an inherent problem whenever it's coming to you.
 Then you have to think, you install Snapchat, you install Instagram, you install any other
 social media application, Facebook, for example.
 How much scrolling you are doing, how much time you are spending, that is the inherent
 problem that comes with that one.
 The memory, the mindset that you are training, right?
 You are scrolling and your mind is not ready.
 Your mind is not build to understand and process the information that you are giving.
 You are giving a few seconds and then you scroll it down, scroll it down, scroll it
 down.
 So your mindset is not trained, is not built, is not developed to process that information
 correctly and that comes with a lot of other problem, anxiety and then sleeping issue and
 so on because you are doing and you are processing.
 So your mind get extra active and when you try to sleep, still your mind is not going
 into that stage.
 That is the whole science behind this one.
 I am not going into the detail of that one.
 The problem which I want to tell you is that if there would be any certain advancement
 that also comes with certain limitations, certain issues which could like auto driving
 cars.
 A lot of issues if there would be any problem which your vehicle cannot judge can hit anyone
 and in that case the disaster is huge.
 You can hit and take the life of anyone or you would be on risk as well, right?
 It is not just a problem with the resources or the damage of, it is someone's life, right?
 So whenever you apply in AI in the life critical missions, it is very important.
 Surgical reports, if you are using AI to predict whether the wine quality is good or bad as
 compared to when reports are doing surgery, for example, medical surgery, in that case
 their accuracy like it should be 100%.
 There is no chance to make a single mistake, right?
 So that is the problem that is called like the imbalance data set issue.
 If your data is highly imbalanced means you have few samples of one of the classes as
 I was discussing before if you talk about malicious versus benign or like nonmalicious
 data and you have only few samples of the malicious files.
 You do not have sufficient samples to train your machine learning model.
 What you will do in that case?
 If you will train your model with such an imbalanced data set, your model would be skewed
 toward to the majority class, right?
 Similarly, there are a lot of legitimate transactions, financial transactions which are going to
 be done every day and that is okay.
 But there are only few fraudulent transactions, right?
 And you do not have the sufficient samples that you can give your machine learning algorithm
 during the training, right?
 And the model that you will build at the end is not capable of enough to detect actually
 those malicious or legitimate, that malicious and fraudulent transactions because you have
 not given the sufficient data set to train with that one, right?
 So that is one of the problem which we call it as imbalanced data set.
 So whenever you apply machine learning, whether you go into industry or you apply in research,
 so you have to see whether your data is balanced or not and there are a lot of different techniques
 which you can use.
 They call as data resampling techniques.
 So when you do the data resampling, there are two methods.
 One is data oversampling, one is data undersampling.
 So oversampling is if you have, for example, two classes for one of the class, you have
 200 sample and for the other class, you have 500 samples, right?
 So if you will increase those 201, the minority class to be equal to the majority class, the
 201, you are doing oversampling, right? and if you want to decrease, you want to remove
 the samples from the majority class, which is the 501 to get it equal to the 201, you
 are doing undersampling.
 And for each of the method, whether it is oversampling or undersampling, there are a
 lot of different methods, a lot of different algorithms, which you can explore, which you
 can apply in order to do oversampling or undersampling.
 But that is to balance your data and then after balancing your data, it is highly likely
 that your performance, your model performance will be improved, right?
 I have applied this one during my PhD, my PhD focus was how to apply AI to improve cyber
 security, right?
 So in that case, I played mostly with the malwares and malicious files and so on and
 in that one, I have tried whenever you balance your data, your performance would be improved
 a bit, right?
 In most of the cases, right?
 So that is the imbalance data set issue.
 And why it is also important, let me give you another example.
 Okay, so I am going to explain you the thing which
 I discussed earlier is, for example, you have here, so in that one, what is happening?
 You have 1 to 80 samples here out of 80, 100.
 So you are using this 20% for the training and this 80% for, sorry, this 20% for the
 testing and this 80% for the training, right?
 And we are mentioning this is our training set, right?
 And this is our testing set, right?
 And whenever we apply and we apply the train test sublet one, so we got it as this one
 is our X train, which we also discussed in our previous classes as well.
 This is your Y train.
 This is your X test.
 And this is your Y test.
 And this is also your ground truth, ground truth as well, right?
 So what you will do is, you will use this training X train and Y train to train your
 model that if this is your X samples, this should be your label.
 If this is this kind of stuff, this should be your label.
 So you have given 80 different samples where you say, okay, this is the data, then this
 should be the label.
 This is the data.
 This should be the label.
 This is the data.
 This should be the label, right?
 And then afterwards, you have given X test, right?
 Now, you are giving the same kind of labels as you given up here.
 And once you give this X test, right?
 Then you will get the Y prediction, right?
 You will give X test, out of that one, you will get your Y prediction for that X test.
 And then you will compare as we did last time when we were discussing about different models,
 you will compare this Y prediction with this Y test because this Y test is our actual prediction.
 If you remember here, as we discussed, right?
 This is your predicted classifications means your Y prediction.
 And this is your Y test means the actual classification, right?
 So this Y test is your ground truth means actual classification.
 And this is what you have got from the model, which is your Y prediction.
 And if it is one here, it is one here means you are doing code if it is one here, it is
 zero here, then would be problem it is zero here, it is one here, this would be a problem
 if it is zero here, and also zero here, this is good, right?
 True negative, true positive, false positive, false negative.
 And based on that one, you are going to actually calculate the performance in terms of accuracy.
 And this is what we have understood now.
 Now, the point which I want to tell you which I want to explain you is that you have 900
 samples for non-COVID patient, right?
 And 100 samples for the COVID patient, right?
 You have trained your model with this highly imbalanced data, where you just have given
 only 100 samples for the COVID patients and 901 with the normal individuals.
 Now, during the testing, you have basically given 90 samples for non-COVID one and 10
 samples for the COVID one, right?
 Out of those 90, 90 were correctly classified.
 And out of these 10, only three were correctly classified, right?
 So true positive rate is this one, 3, 3 by 10.
 And true negative rate means non-COVID patient were 100%, right?
 Out of 90, you have, because you have given a lot of non-COVID one, so your model knows
 really well who are the non-COVID one.
 And on top of that, because the other one is not sufficient enough, so your model is
 skewed toward to the majority class.
 So 91 are correctly classified and even 7 out of the COVID one, your model has predicted
 as negative, means 3 were correctly classified as COVID and 7 were actually classified as
 non-COVID, right?
 So 97 was classified, were classified as non-COVID where 90 were the correct and 7 was incorrect
 because 7 were the COVID one and your model has predicted them as negative, non-COVID,
 right?
 So overall, your true positive rate is 3 and true negative count is 90.
 So you will say 3 plus 90, which is 93, right?
 By 100 because total you have given 90 plus 10 is yours.
 So you will say your accuracy is 93%, right?
 Which you will claim, oh, I got a very good accuracy, I got 93% accuracy, but now that
 is not true.
 That is not the true indication, right?
 Actually you have not got that much good accuracy because for one of the samples, you are successful
 in order to classify the samples correctly, right?
 But for the other class, you have not been successful and you just shown the 30% of the
 accuracy because you were just able to classify 3 out of 10 samples correctly, right?
 So in that case, your true positive rate is 30% and your true negative rate is 100%, right?
 And if you will just rely on the accuracy, that is 93%, right?
 But if you will calculate the other metric, which is 90, or you will say 0.9 plus 0.3
 divided by 2, right, which is, what is that, 60%, right, 0.9 plus 0.3, 1.2 divided by 2
 is equal to 60%, right, 60%, right?
 So that 2 is 1 point, that is same, right, 1.2 divided by 2 and out of that, when we
 got this result, right?
 And that is the balanced accuracy.
 That is another metric, which I am going to tell you is very important, right?
 So whenever you would have imbalanced dataset, in that case, you have to rely other metrics,
 not on the accuracy, right?
 And it really depends and that what metric is important for you.
 So it is not the case always you will consider the accuracy is the right metric, right?
 In that case, the negative rate was important and the positive one was very important.
 So the recall was just a 30%.
 Because out of those 10 samples, you were able to classify only 3 of them, right?
 So 3 by 10 is your recall or sensitivity, 30%, right?
 And that is a big disaster here.
 Because in this case, the negative one was very important for you.
 Because those were the COVID patient and you cannot let them to go, right, into the society.
 So the point which I want to make is that you have to choose the metrics carefully,
 right?
 Whenever your data is highly imbalanced, in that case, accuracy is not the right metric
 to compare the performance of your models.
 In that case, either you are going to go for F1 score or G mean score.
 Do we have G mean here?
 You can search G mean score as well.
 That is another metric maybe not listed here.
 But if you will search, you will be able to find it out, right?
 That is G mean score, geometric mean that has their own calculation and so on, right?
 Specificity and multiplication into sensitivity.
 And then you have to take the square root and then you will calculate.
 So if your data is highly imbalanced, then you are going to refer F1 score or G mean
 score in order to see the performance of your model.
 In that case, accuracy will not be the right metric to compare the performance of your
 model.
 I have given you one example where I not only introduce you the balanced accuracy, which
 I calculated.
 The true positive rate was 0.3, the true negative rate was 100%, right?
 And when we have plus them and divide them with 2, you got the 60% accuracy.
 See how bad your model is performing.
 But if you will consider the accuracy, you're going to say, oh, my model is doing the 93%
 of the accuracy, right?
 So it is very important when you choose and when you apply machine learning AI into solve
 any problem, what model you are choosing, what is your data set.
 That is what you have explored, you have analyzed, you have seen is there any problem in my data
 set and that is what the CRISDM architecture first few stages are.
 And you have reached to the level 4, stage 4, when you actually think about the modeling
 and other stuff, right?
 The first few stages where you analyze your data set, because there would be certain problems
 in your data set.
 So next time for second assessment, for third assessment, you just have not to rely just
 to analyze and visualize your data set.
 If there are certain problem, you can fix it up and see that after the fixing, have
 you seen any accuracy into that one, improvement into that one, like improvement in your accuracy
 or whatever the metric you are comparing, is your error is decreased or not.
 So that is what you have mentioned in your lesson learns, right?
 What are the things which you think can improve?
 So you have to apply those one and see whether that is improving or not, right?
 And before concluding this discussion, I want to tell you very easy thing, right?
 That is when you talk about the imbalance data set.
 So SMOTE is, if you have heard this name before, this is used for data sampling, right?
 And that is one of the data oversampling technique as we already discussed, that when you do
 the data resampling, right, then if you are increasing the quality count of your minority
 class in order to get equal to the majority class, then in that case, you have actually
 get this information, right?
 So here you will see, what I want to emphasize is the important things that you need to consider.
 Here you need to from the imbalance learn, IMB learn, from oversampling, you have to
 import SMOTE and once you have actually got this one, you need to create its object oversample,
 then with this oversample dot fit resample and you have to give those x and y, your training
 one, right?
 And then afterwards, you can simply apply as you normally do, right?
 And you see there were few samples here, like the oranges one and you were having a lot
 of different samples.
 So 99, 9,900 were from one of the class, looks like from the blue one and only the oranges
 one which is positive was only the oranges one, just the 100 one and when you balance
 it up, now you can see, now this one is 99, 100 and this is again 99, 100 and you can
 see a lot of different data and once you have applied this one, definitely its accuracy
 would have been improved, right?
 And SMOTE for classification, simply like you have to apply, they applied the CN3 and
 then they after they applied the SMOTE one and then they check, earlier it was 76%, the
 area under curve and then once they have applied SMOTE, right?
 The accuracy, the value of area under curve is improved to 80.9%, right?
 Once the CN3 and they applied, then it is 83.4% and so on, right?
 So as I mentioned earlier that it is very simple to apply, you just have to create its
 object as they have done here, they have done here for example and you just can apply for
 your second assessment and first simply apply and see how many samples you have for one
 of the class because next week, I am going to tell you how you have to convert that continuous
 label into a discrete one as the FEDI were discussing at the start of our class that
 over greater than equal to 6, you are going to say good quality wine and the lower one
 would be the bad quality one.
 So after that one, you have to see how many samples do you have for the good wine, good
 quality wine, how many for the bad quality one and if there would be a lot of difference,
 then simply apply one of the modelling techniques say the CN3 and afterwards, you can balance
 it.
 So, for example, not just one, maybe you can apply more, for example, you will start with
 the same data set as you were doing applying different models and you got certain accuracy,
 you will say, oh, I applied four different models out of those one, for example, sport
 vector machine is outperformed with an accuracy of 83%, right?
 And then you will say, oh, there was a problem of the imbalance data set, when I converted,
 there was only few samples for the good quality wine, there was a lot of different samples
 for the bad quality one.
 So what I did is I know applied smote, simply copy paste this code.
 And once that smote is done, right, you will simply say now the data count for the bad
 is this one and good is this one.
 And now copy paste exactly all of the cores whatever you have written before, again downwards
 after that one with the new re-sampled data and say that accuracy is improved from 83%
 to 86%, right, very simple, right?
 Simply apply the modelling technique, then apply the code related to data re-sample and
 then copy paste again the code to do the modelling again.
 And just say whether you got any improvement or not, right?
 So that is related to some of the discussion which we have made here to let you understand
 what classification is, how to measure the performance of any model and how to compare
 different models based on this confusion matrix using that for my years, how can you build
 up the other matrix.
 And on top of that, we discussed one of the problems which can be inherent whenever you
 apply AI to solve any of the research problems, right?
 And then we discussed why a certain matrix are really very important for some of the
 research problems.
 So it is very significant to see which matrix are like really making more sense for a research
 problem.
 And then you're going to use those one in order to see whether your model is performing
 good or bad.
 So any question up till here from all of this discussion, if there is any question you may
 ask, otherwise, we will take a few minutes break, it's 1243 on the dial, we will meet
 again at 1250, right, after all of this discussion, take a seven minute break, and then we will
 come back and start about the sport vector machine, which is the model which we have
 to discuss today, which would be brief, but we have to discuss how it works and so on.
 And then we will see its implementation and then we will conclude our lecture.
 So take a seven minute break, and then I will see you back at 1250.
 Thank you.
 Transcribed by https://otter.ai
 Transcribed by https://otter.ai
 Transcribed by https://otter.ai
 Transcribed by https://otter.ai
 Transcribed by https://otter.ai
 Transcribed by https://otter.ai
 Transcribed by https://otter.ai
 Transcribed by https://otter.ai
 Transcribed by https://otter.ai
 Transcribed by https://otter.ai
 Transcribed by https://otter.ai
 Transcribed by https://otter.ai
 Transcribed by https://otter.ai
 Transcribed by https://otter.ai
 Okay, welcome back, dear students.
 Any questions you may have related to what we have discussed so far?
 Okay, so now we are discussing another classification algorithm.
 It is used for classification, but we do have a version of this one where it is used for
 regression as well.
 Some of you have used for your first assessment as well that is called sport vector regressor
 SVR.
 But for mostly it is famous for classification, which is sport vector machine SVM.
 It is very famous, very good algorithm.
 It is used mostly for the supervised binary classification.
 We discussed already what supervised learning is, where we know the label and the type of
 the attribute if it is categorical, then it is called classification.
 And if it is just has two categories, two possibilities between which you have to do
 the prediction, then it is called binary classification.
 The goal of SVM is to train a model that assign new unseen objects into a particular category.
 That is what the aim of any classification algorithm is.
 They have given different examples, which we have already discussed whether an email
 is a spam email or a ham email or non-spam email, whether an object is above or below,
 whether a person is COVID, non-COVID patient, whether a file is malicious, nonmalicious,
 whether a transaction is fraudulent or legitimate.
 So all of these are the example of your binary classification.
 So as discussed earlier, sport vector machines are supervised learning models with associated
 learning algorithm that analyze data used for classification.
 And I discussed you have a version of sport vector machine, sport vector regressor that
 is used for regression analysis as well.
 There are a few important things which we need to consider whenever you are discussing
 about the sport vector machine.
 You have this hyper plane.
 This is very significant when we discussed about sport vector machine and then you have
 all of the data objects of one class to one side of this hyper plane and the data objects
 of the other class to the other side of this hyper plane.
 And it is very important and that is what actually this hyper plane purpose is that
 the aim of this sport vector machine is to have this hyper plane on that side or on that
 position where it can segregate the samples of both of the classes correctly, right?
 This is very important because if you will draw this hyper plane here, then you will
 see that this sample will be misclassified, right?
 So, any question up till here?
 >> Yes, sir, I have a question.
 Is this algorithm just works for two classes or can it work for, I don't know, three more?
 >> Yeah, there is a version of this one that is used for multi-classification as well.
 You have to tweak around that one, right?
 So, it is very important that you where you have to draw this hyper plane, right?
 So, we understood that this is an hyper plane.
 Now, another important concept is that the data points which of one of the class which
 is the closest to this hyper plane are called your sport vectors.
 So, sport vectors are the points which of both of the classes which are closest to this
 hyper plane, right?
 And the purpose of the sport vector machine is to draw this hyper plane in a way that
 the distance between the sport vector points is high.
 So, it means if you will draw this hyper plane here, right, then you will see the distance
 to this blue one to this hyper plane is very close.
 So, we have to draw this hyper plane in a way where the distance to the sport vector
 points to this hyper plane will be the maximum one, right?
 Or the other way around you can think that we have to distinguish the both of the samples
 of both of the classes explicitly, right?
 We do not want to have any samples on 48 or 52 because 52 can jump to 49 would raise a
 chance of the misclassification and this 48 would be to the 51, 52 side and will be assigned
 to a different class which would be misclassification.
 So, we have to draw that line in a way where they can segregate the samples of both classes
 explicitly and easily, right?
 And the other important thing is while you are drawing this hyper plane, the first purpose
 is if you will understand this line, then it means you understood the lecture and we
 will just quickly go through.
 The first priority is to have the right classification and second priority is to have the margin,
 we call it as margin, the distance from the sport vector point to that hyper plane is
 called margin.
 So, the margin would be the maximum and that is what the aim of sport vector machine is,
 but the first priority is to having the right classification.
 If you will have any chance where you will have the, any of the sample will be the misclassification,
 right?
 And then the size, the distance, the margin will be increased, no, we do not know, we
 do not go for that one.
 First priority is to the right classification, does not matter for one of the class, you
 would have the margin which is minimum one, not maximum, right?
 And the second priority would be to increase that margin.
 So, the first is the right correct classification, right?
 So, here you will see that is the hyper plane, a sample example, classification task, any
 two features, you can think of hyper plane as a line that linearly separates and classify
 set of the data and hyper plane over data points lie the more confident we are that
 they will be correctly classified.
 So, when the new testing data are added, whether whatever the side of the hyper plane it lands
 will decide the class that it will assign, right?
 So, and we also discussed this is called the margin.
 The goal is to choose a hyper plane with the greatest possible margin between the hyper
 plane and any point and we discussed that the closest point are called the sport vector
 points.
 So, the distance between the sport vector points to this hyper plane is called margin
 and the aim of the sport vector machine algorithm is to increase that margin means you have
 to maximize, right?
 And this is another concept.
 So, for example, if you will try to understand this that I have a paper here, right?
 This paper and I draw the few points here into the middle of the paper, right?
 And those points which I am drawing here into the middle of this paper is belong to one
 of the class means all of the blue one are in the middle and all of the green one on
 the other side, right, in a different circle, right, but that is around all of the data
 points not just on one side on this side, right?
 So, green one here on this side and the blue one into the middle one, right?
 And now if somebody asked me to use the sport vector machine here, if I will draw any hyper
 plane here, then these samples belong to one class, these samples belong to other class,
 right?
 But that will lead a lot of misclassification, accuracy would be compromised because a lot
 of green on this side you will put them into one of the class, a lot of blue to the other
 side you will put them into a different class.
 So, a lot of blue will be misclassified, a lot of green will be misclassified.
 So, what is the solution?
 The solution they say is that the middle one that are belong to one class here and the
 green one that is around that one here, they will say that you pick up this paper like
 this and you pick up the four sides of your paper like this, pick up this side from here,
 the paper this side from here.
 So you will see paper will look like this now, right?
 Means you have picked up all of the four side of your paper like this, right?
 So, it would be like this.
 So, four side would be together, then they say you have to draw the hyper plane here,
 right?
 So, all of the green one who are on the centers are picked up, all of them get together on
 upper side and the bottom one where which was the middle of that paper was the blue
 one and then all of them would be correctly classified because the bottom one and the
 top one would be the green and the yellow one.
 They call it as kerneling, the concept of kerneling where they say that one of the,
 if you do not have the samples, which can easily be segregated, so what you can do is
 you can let your data to be mapped, to be realized into a higher dimension, right?
 Into a 3D dimension.
 In that case, then you can draw that hyper plane which can easily segregate them.
 As you can see the example here, they introduced that if the data is like this, for example,
 there is no way if you draw hyper plane here and you say these are the green, these are
 the blue.
 So, you will see a lot of greens are here into the blue category, a lot of blues are
 here into the green category, right?
 So, how to split them, how to segregate them?
 They say then the list lifting of the balls represent the mapping of the data into a higher
 dimension and that is called the kerneling.
 So, a 2D view of the data to be mapped into a 3D view, right?
 Like this.
 So, if you have this one, so you will let it to be mapped into a higher dimension, right?
 And then you can segregate the one line from here, all of the blue ones are up of this
 one box and the green one at the bottom.
 And then if you will draw an hyper plane here, you can easily segregate them, right?
 So, select the hyper plane which segregate the two classes better, right?
 Which one is the best one?
 Of course, not the C one because if you will choose the C here, right?
 So, some of the red one belong to the store category and some of the stars are coming
 into this category, not the good one.
 If you will choose the A, a lot of red one are classified as stars, right?
 The best one is the B, right, where one side is all the stars and the other side all the
 balls, right?
 Then the other thing which we discussed what is the best one, A is also okay, B is also
 okay, but we will go for C because that is the concept that you have to choose that hyper
 plane with the maximum margin.
 Because if you will choose the B here, these stars are very closer to the B and they can
 easily jump to the other side if any of the minor change you would have into the hyper
 parameters, right?
 Similarly if you will choose the A, these two red one can jump to the other side and
 can raise the chance of misclassification.
 So, you are going to go for C which would be the best in this case, right?
 Then there is a mathematics behind here, right, behind this hyper plane and then they said
 on this side would be positive, on the other side would be negative one, right?
 And the hyper plane here would be okay, there could be another one, there could be another
 one, all of them are okay, they are correctly classified, but the optimal one would be the
 one that will actually increase that margin.
 You see which we discussed here, star is very closer to B, this red one is very closer to
 A, so we are going to go for C which has the maximum margin here, right?
 What we already discussed and the other important thing which we discussed is whether if you
 will choose the hyper plane A here, right, which has the less margin, right?
 Because this star is very closer to this hyper plane, this red one is very closer to A, but
 as compared to if you will choose this B one, then you will see these stars are away, these
 red balls are away, but the problem is if you will choose this B one, then this star
 would be misclassified as ball, as circle and it will be classified on this side because
 all of the samples of the B would be belong to balls and then this would be classified
 as circle which is not correct, right?
 This is a star, so the first priority is the right hyper plane is A, so as I given you
 the example earlier, the first priority is to choose the correct classification and second
 priority is to increase that margin, right?
 Then they have given scenarios what you will do and so on, this is the problem which I
 discussed earlier that all of the samples here and the other class samples around that
 one, if you will choose any of the hyper plane, this will not give you the best result, so
 the solution is kernaling, you can use different kernels and what the kernels will do, they
 will map your data into a higher dimension and then you can actually split a line here,
 split and hyper plane here which will actually segregate the data samples of both of the
 classes here, right?
 And that is called a kernel trick, there are different kernels which you can use with the
 sport vector machine in order to let your data to be draw into a higher dimension and
 so on, right and I kernel trick and there are different kernels, linear kernel, polynomial,
 RBF and sigmoid and so on.
 Now, if we will go to the discussion here, just give me a second, I will share the screen
 with you.
 So, they have given a very good result.
 Very good video where you can easily understand the concept of kernel which we were discussing.
 I think this one, very short video of 43 seconds, the same thing which we discussed before,
 just have a look to this video where you can see the data points for one of the class is
 in the middle, the blue one and the red one on the other side.
 So, what they have done, see the data is here in the blue one in the middle and the red
 one is on the side, now if you will see all of the red one or on the top and the butter
 one is with the blue which was in the middle and then you can have a one separator here
 which can easily segregate the blue one and the red one.
 That is called kernel link where you are actually mapping your data into a higher dimension.
 Watch it one more time.
 Okay, thank you.
 Okay, I hope you have understood this one.
 And any questions so far?
 So just to clarify in terms of that classification, if on a lateral plane, I mean for visualization,
 if we have class A on the outside and class B in the inside, then what we need to do is
 through kernel link, we create that hyperbole where it then sort of makes it easier for
 us to classify between class A and class B. True, yes.
 Okay.
 Because otherwise it is difficult for you to segregate if you will on the linear space,
 if you will just draw a hyperplane, then you would have a high misclassification rate.
 So you are just tweaking around in order to have the right classification, just mapping
 that data into a higher dimension, that is it.
 The other thing is the Google Colab, if I would be sharing that one.
 So if I will upload, for example, this one here.
 So you will see here, there are different data set of different phases where they have
 given the example and they have actually, the important part is when they are actually
 applying this SVC, sport vector classifier, kernel is RBF and then they are actually segregating.
 That is one of the example that they have given.
 The second one is, and that is what I picked from your activities, which you need to do.
 The second one is related to
 this breast cancer classification.
 The data set is uploaded here, they just have to analyze your data and after that one, they
 just have looked up to the target class and after the target class, they just have looked
 up your head and tail, visualize your data, you can do that realization for your second
 and third assessment as well, scatter plot as well, heat map as well and draw up if there
 would be any value, then train, test, split, just see the samples, how many samples you
 have got in training and how many into the testing and then you applied the sport vector
 machine, sklearn, SVM import SVC and then create an object and then that object just
 fit your data and this is by default values, the C value, the gamma value, the kernel is
 RBF, which is by default, if you will do this one and then you can just have that prediction,
 you can realize your confusion matrix using this code in the form of heat map and if you
 want to see it as a report, you can see the classification report, y test and y pred,
 y pred means the prediction that you have got, y test is your actual one which you have
 got, right and then you can see what is your recall accuracy and so on.
 So that is one of the examples in our today's class which you need to do the SVC, right
 okay and that is one thing, the other important thing that you need to do the SVC is to look
 for SVM, go to SVM, simple scikit-learn one and then you will see that is used for classification
 right, SVC, if you will see the SVC, then you will see these are the hyper parameters,
 you have a value of C, you have a value of kernel, you have a value of gamma, normally
 these are the three important one which is making a huge difference and then they have
 mentioned the default values and what the default kernel as you see with the recent
 example which we just discussed, the default value for the C was 1.0 and for the kernel
 it was RBF and so on, right and you can simply explore this sport vector machine.
 Okay, they have not given any implementation, what I want to show you some other important
 stuff.
 but while you just change the value of the kernel, you are going to implement the
 different kind of sport vector machines very easily, right, so it is not if like for example,
 whatever the classification task you are doing as you are doing for your second assessment,
 you just change the value of the kernel for example, like here different kind of kernels
 what you can do is you just have to say svm.svc and the kernel is linear, right, you will
 set the fit and you will set the boundary and so on and then you can simply change it
 to polynomial, right and simply build another model and definitely these kernels, let me
 tell you, they have a very huge difference in the overall performance of your whatever
 the problem you are like implementing them, right, so maybe with the RBF kernel you are
 getting 80% accuracy.
 But when you apply the linear kernel, there would be a 70% accuracy, so most of the cases
 they have a very huge difference in terms of the overall performance when you change
 the value of the kernel, right, so the point which I am going to make the link which I
 shared you in my last announcement if you remember if you will have a look to
 the Naive Bayes one which I did where I shared the, there you see Naive Bayes algorithm with
 different Naive Bayes and similarly here they applied sport vector machine, so here svm,
 so svc you can try if kernel is equal to linear, if kernel is equal to polynomial, if kernel
 is equal to sigmoid and the rest of the code would be 100% same, right, you just need to
 change the hyper parameters here into the svc when you create its object, right, so
 you just have to change the values here, right, and you would be all fine to implement multiple
 models for your second assessments, right, so even if you apply the cn3 you can apply
 random forest, you can apply logistic regression which we will study shortly, you can apply
 Naive Bayes and within the Naive Bayes you can apply multiple Naive Bayes, Gaussian Naive
 Bayes, Bernoulli Naive Bayes and so on which we discussed in our last classes, similarly
 when you apply svm you can apply svm with linear kernel with polynomial and sigmoid
 and so on RBF kernels, you can implement 8 or 10 models easily with just changing the
 few lines of code and that would be all fine for your second assessment.
 And then you can also apply the ensembling as well to see if combining the output of
 multiples model whether there is an impact on the overall performance or not and yeah,
 that is important thing.
 Another one is which you can also explore is that as I mentioned that during my PhD
 I have actually implemented this Naive Bayes algorithm and also this sport vector machine
 and different variations of this one, so let me also share with you that one as well, let
 me quickly first show you and then you can explore it further.
 Which I will also share you in an announcement, so this is the paper where actually I proposed
 a learning based algorithm for malware detection, in that one you can have a look that I have
 actually implemented different models as you can see I am going to show you one of the
 other tables, so here I implemented 15 deep learning models and for example, any of the
 deep learning model can be used in two ways, one way is from the start up till the end
 you will use it for the classification, then we call it as end to end classification.
 The other way is if you will feel that this deep learning model is trained on another
 data set and you are using just for your purpose which is totally different, for example these
 models are trained on to do some image classification of some real life images and you are doing
 it for your malware classification whether an image is of a normal file or a malware
 file, so that is not built for this one, so what you can do is you use their learning,
 you use their capabilities but from the second last layer you can actually get the parameters
 from there, the features from there and then use those features to give to another machine
 learning model to do the classification, so one way is you will do this VGG 16 and you
 get its accuracy is 93% accuracy, right that is used for end to end classification but
 if you will use the features which are extracted from the second last layer of this VGG 16
 and you give to a bagging algorithm what is the accuracy, similarly the features that
 you have extracted you have given to a logistic regression, you have given to a random forest,
 you have given to an air base, you have given to a sea entry, you have given to a sport
 vector machine and you see the performance is improved as compared to if it is exactly
 used for end to end classification and if you will just extract the features from the
 second last layer and given to a SVM, the accuracy is improved to 97%, so for all of
 the 15 deep learning model into I think 10 or 13 machine learning models I have implemented
 and got all of this score, if it is extracted through regnet and applied directly then 88%
 but if it is features are extracted through the regnet and then given to any air base
 accuracy is 85%, if extracted features through this one given to an SVM the accuracy improved
 to 98%, right and this is mostly what I have done but the important thing which I want
 to tell you is the thing here is the proposed framework is where I used this SVM and I have
 explained that one in detail here, you can have a look which we also discussed here.
 This is the simple, I used any of the file, any executable file, I first converted them
 into an image and you will see if malware file is converted to an image, it looks different
 as compared to if a benign file, non-malicious file is converted to an image and later on
 here is that final classifier where you can see the one which we discussed where is to
 increase its zonius here, right, here I used the final proposed one is the SVM here, right
 in the middle one here, so you will see I explained what is class 1, class 2, these
 are the sport vector 1 which has the closest one to that hyper plane and I increase what
 is the margin and so on, all those things here, right for this malware detection purposes,
 so I explain in detail like what could be the best and the mathematics behind this sport
 vector machine and all the mathematics, the machine learning stuff behind that one, so
 you can also have a read to this paper and if there would be any question that has come
 into your mind, you may ask, you not have to understand everything of that one because
 you do not know about deep learning, you do not know about other world, other models but
 just to have a feel that how these sport vector machines could be used in a real world task
 and to solve the real world problems, so yeah that is all about the SVM that is the most
 very powerful machine learning algorithms.
 So, yeah that is all from my side today, you can have a look to those activities and you
 can explore how to implement this SVM very easy, I have shown you in the activities,
 you can see you just have to change the value of the kernel, one of the hyper parameters
 of the sport vector classifier and you can see its impact, it is on the overall performance
 of your model, so overall in today's lecture, we discussed very important point, we discussed
 about confusion matrix, 4 different measures where we discussed the true positive, the
 second letter tells you the classification, the label which assigned by your model and
 the first letter tells you whether your model did it correctly or not and then how these
 4 measures could be used to build up the other matrix and then we discussed one of the inherent
 problems that can come with whenever you apply the any of the machine learning AI algorithm
 that is the imbalance data set issue, we discussed why in those cases specific matrix are important
 to consider and it related to some of the problems I have given you a various example.
 Then we discussed the sport vector machine, where we discussed about the important concept
 of the hyper plane which is a line which is being drawn to segregate explicitly separate
 the data samples of both of the classes and our aim is to increase the margin, margin
 is the distance between the sport vector machine, sport vector points to that hyper plane and
 sport vector points are the points which are the closer to that hyper plane and then we
 discussed about the first priority is to actually increase that correct classification and later
 on the priority would be to increase the margin.
 Then we discussed about the kerneling concept where actually you gonna actually map your
 data points into higher dimensions in order to like see your classification more effectively.
 Any question, any doubt into this discussion you may have in your mind and please keep
 working on your second assessment as well and if there would be any question along the
 way you are most welcome to contact with me happy to answer but hopefully next week we
 will have the feedback from the assessment one and also we will discuss our assessment
 two in detail what are our expectations and how you can improve that one.
 Before going to the activities any question you may have in our discussions.
 Yeah any question Saroj, Suleiman, Sudip, Takunda, Renato, Feli, John, Wes, Usain, Noam.
 Everything good so far.
 Good.
 I said just looking forward to the second assessment.
 Yes so just start and if there is any question you are most welcome to discuss otherwise
 I will discuss the assessment two next week because understanding of the assessment understanding
 of the problem is also part of the assessment which is also very important later on nobody
 will come to explain you they will just give the requirements and then you have to understand
 and make your analogy and understanding first on that one.
 So that is why I let you to work on your assessment first make some understanding and then it
 would be easy for us to correct that understanding and given it a roadmap.
 Yes Ferdy.
 Yeah so when will you get the grid search CV?
 Hopefully before the next week class in next next couple of days yeah hopefully before
 the weekend during this week.
 I paused because most of you have applied extension so that is why I don't want to release
 before everyone will have the submission because otherwise it would be unfair for those people
 who have submitted on time.
 No no I mean I mean the code for assessment two.
 The code for assessment two what do you mean?
 Grid search CV.
 Yeah yeah I will explain next week okay yeah you can simply search even what is grid search
 CV and then I will also give you the code because sometimes you can do it manually as
 well like you can implement it but grid search CV is very easy you can simply search and
 wherever you get the code you can just simply use it just a few lines of code.
 But don't worry about that one we are in week six next week would be the week seven so if
 you have implemented few of the models grid search CV would be top of that one you don't
 need to make any modification into your console don't worry about that one where you will
 have that code you will just embed it and it would be all fine it would be an incremental.
 So the rest of the time please do your activities go through the code and if there would be
 any question we can discuss okay till that all the best and have a good day yet.
 Thank you.
 Thank you professor.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
