 So take a five minute break, and then we will start our normal lecture.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Professor.
 Yes.
 Okay.
 So, we will start our normal lecture.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 We will start our normal lecture and then we will start our normal lecture.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 We will start our normal lecture and then we will start our normal lecture and then we
 will start our normal lecture.
 And then we will start our normal lecture and then we will start our normal lecture.
 And then we will start our normal lecture and then we will start our normal lecture.
 And then we will start our normal lecture and then we will start our normal lecture.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 We will start our normal lecture and then we will start our normal lecture.
 And then we will start our normal lecture and then we will start our normal lecture.
 And then we will start our normal lecture and then we will start our normal lecture.
 Okay.
 Welcome back, dear students.
 In today's class, we are going to discuss very important concept of explainability.
 Let me share my screen so you can watch the slide desk deck here.
 Okay.
 That is explainable AI, explainable machine learning, right?
 This is very important for us because most of your machine learning models, they are
 black box in nature.
 And when we apply these models into the life critical missions where health or life is
 involved, in that case, we need to understand how actually your model has reached to that
 particular decision.
 This is very important.
 For example, if you, and we have discussed this one in our previous class as well, where
 we discussed that, if you remember when we discussed about the balanced accuracy, in
 the balanced accuracy, what we have discussed that maybe your model is giving us 93% results
 and you are saying your model is performing really well.
 But for those 90 samples, which were for non-COVID, your model accurately identified and classified
 those one.
 But out of those 10 COVID patients, your model could have identified 3 samples correctly.
 So, for your positive cases, your accuracy was just 30% because out of 10, 3 were correctly
 classified.
 Though for the non-one, your true negative rate was 100% because out of 90 all were classified
 correctly.
 So, overall accuracy was 90 plus 3, which is Tn plus Tp divide by total which are 100.
 So, your accuracy was 93%.
 But that is not correct because misclassifying any non-COVID person is involving some extra
 test and consideration.
 And then you will eventually reach to the CNO that person is a non-COVID patient.
 We like mistakenly classified it as a COVID one.
 But if you will let any COVID person to go into the society, to go home, that will create
 a big disaster.
 So, those 7 which you are misclassifying are big disaster for us.
 Similarly, we discussed another example of the malware files.
 So 90 out of 90 non-malware files, non-malicious, non-virus files were classified correctly.
 And out of the 10 malicious files, 3 were classified correctly.
 So you can imagine like misclassifying a non-malicious file would require some extensive tests and
 some doing some further static analysis or dynamic analysis.
 But if you will release a malware file to enter into the network or into a computer
 system that will create a big disaster for us.
 So in most of the cases, this is very important.
 And last time you remember, we discussed with the immigration example that the person who
 do not have the right visa, if you let that one to enter, that is a big problem for us.
 So we need to understand when this machine learning is being applied because you know
 machine learning nowadays is being applied in every area of life, whether it is health,
 whether it is manufacturing, mechanical, whether it is education, finance, cyber, anywhere.
 So it is very important to use the machine learning wisely.
 So that is all about this lecture.
 So when you have a data and within the data, you train a black box AI model and then you
 get the output.
 That is one way.
 The other is you have the data here and you get your model here.
 But whatever the output you have, you are getting here, you need its explanation, right?
 How this would have been interpreted or you need to understand the rules related are behind
 that one.
 So that is what the main, that raise two main concept.
 Number one is the interpretability refers to the ability to observe cause and effect
 situation in a system and essentially predict which changes will cause what type of shift
 in the result, right?
 And explainability is basically the ability to understand and explain in human terms what
 is happening with the model, how exactly it works under the hood.
 So interpretability, I can give you one example, which we discussed that if you have a normal
 fever, you are feeling pain on the backside of your eyes or maybe back pain, are you feeling
 a little bit of dizzy?
 Then maybe you, your medical petitioner will say, or you have a normal seasonal flu.
 But if you are vomiting along with these symptoms, they might say you have a typhoid or if you
 are along with these features, if you are shivering a lot, they might say you got a
 malaria, for example, or if you are sneezing a lot, your platelets are decreasing.
 They might say that you got a COVID for example.
 So you just have to see this cause and effect situation, which are actually changing your
 result.
 But explainability on the other hand is telling you and explaining you into a human understandable
 way that what happening with this model, how your model actually reached to that particular
 disease and so on.
 So that is what your explainability of any model is.
 So these things are very important because the machine learning raises novel challenges.
 The one challenge which we discussed is your imbalance data set issue, which we discussed
 in our previous class.
 So as I mentioned, whenever you are applying any machine learning to solve any of the problem,
 you have to see whether your data is balanced or not, because if your data is highly imbalanced,
 then in that case, your model will be skewed toward to the majority class.
 That is the second issue now that most of your machine learning models, they are black
 box in nature.
 So it is very important for us.
 I can ask you this question some I know some of the universities here in Australia, some
 big universities when they advertise any lecturer position, they found a lot of applicants more
 than 150, 200 and then it is really very hard because all of them they are the PhDs, they
 have the papers and so on.
 So they use certain AI tools in order to shortlist certain applicant.
 In that case, me as an applicant want to know why my application has not been selected,
 not been shortlisted, or maybe Commonwealth Bank, they are using any tool, any AI to approve
 your loan or not.
 So even in that case, you also want to know that why my loan application was not approved.
 So it is important for policymakers, regulators to understand to see how your model reached
 to that particular to see and is there any discriminatory stuff behind the selection
 or the short listing of the applicants in whatever the task you apply.
 So it needs some further technical research, which will actually tell you that everything
 is okay, there is no as such wiseness or any problem into the machine learning decision.
 So examples could be when interacting with any algorithmic decisions, whatever the decision,
 whatever the prediction your model has made user actually expect and demand the same level
 of expressiveness, why you have made that decision, why you reach to that decision.
 A doctor if using the AI to diagnose any disease, so then both of them they want to see whether
 the machine learning whatever the CN the model has missed, what are the reasons behind what
 is the rationale behind what important features they have considered in order to reach to
 that particular decision.
 Similarly as we discussed the example of loan approval, if your application is denied, then
 you want to know and understand the main reasons because based on that one you can improve
 in future and then you can reapply again.
 Similarly regulator will want to understand the behavior of the system or a developer
 may want to understand where the model is more or less confident so they can provide
 more data set, more number of features or they can improve the overall performance of
 your model.
 So as we discussed that your machine learning, your AI both are being applied into various
 areas of life and then each one of them when there is a very high critical whether it is
 a finance, whether it is a medical, so that needs a lot amount of your explainability
 to understand that how actually your model reached to that decision.
 So explainable AI is crucial for risk assessment, fraud detection and explaining credit decisions,
 how they actually assign you a particular credit rating and so on.
 So these things are really very important because if you will have these things that
 will actually increase the trust of your customers, your investors on your system because they
 will feel that your system has a rational, it is telling us what are the reasons and
 then if you improve those reasons, if you overcome those limitations and then you reapply
 then you could have selected there.
 So both make sense, both makes more logic and if there is any problem they can feed
 more data to the training of your model and then can improve the predictions later on.
 So whether it is finance and the second one which is very important nowadays which is
 your autonomous driving, autonomous cars, you can understand now also working in Australia
 which needs a huge number of sensors and various technology, maps, satellites and artificial
 intelligence in order to make a certain decision, roads and if there is any obstacles come on
 the way and parking and so on.
 So you can understand in that one how explainability, how much explainability is required.
 So explainability in autonomous vehicles is vital for the understanding vehicle, the scenes
 in the real time which is crucial for the safety and the legal reasons.
 So explanation help operators to intervene if needed and add regulators in accountability
 assessments after accident if anything bad happens and in recent there was an incident
 happen into the US where one car was actually collided with a house and they have put it
 on the auto driving but they say that even putting into the auto driving the driver actually
 put a pressure onto the pedal and so on.
 So there was a lot of discussion which Elon Musk has given but that was happening with
 the recent case in a few weeks ago with the Tesla in US.
 So anyways but in that case even the autonomous driving you need to understand how actually
 that decision has been made or if there would be any problem how you can improve in future.
 Healthcare as we discussed it's really help to the medical practitioner, diagnostic process,
 treatment recommendation and so on and whatever the CT scan or x-ray or other analysis, image
 analysis we are doing so it is really very important because the emphasis on the accuracy
 plus the reliability and the ability to provide explanation to the healthcare professional
 that how they actually reach to that particular disease so they can trust and make the system
 more robust whenever they have any problem into the analysis.
 Similarly manufacturing as you can understand there could be a simple bug into that one
 that can raise a significant issue later on.
 So it is very important to understand how actually that process is going to be happen.
 So why do we need the interpretability, explainability sometimes it is important for our safety right.
 Your system would be much more secured and then you also have the curiosity as well how
 your system is working and how they are making those particular decisions and so on and if
 there would be any problem you can debug it and then can add more regulations, more data
 into that one in order to make your system more robust and so on and can also optimize
 your true objective they are detecting it correctly by adding more stuff you can actually
 improve their overall performance so that is the four areas.
 There are a lot of different areas but these are the four important areas where actually
 give us a need of this interpretability and why and where we do not need any explainability
 where there is low risk there is as such no significant problem whether you are going
 to play tennis or not remember the example which we discussed when we were discussing
 about the sea and tree or if there would be any awareness related stuff so that is also
 well studies area so where we actually do not need to have the explainability everybody
 also understood that they have to follow this thing and they have to go through this path
 in order to achieve anything and when the vulnerability prevent people from gaming the
 system where there is need of the interpretability.
 So now the question is how you can actually achieve that explainability that interpretability
 the first is very easy is to use those models which are inherently interpretable like the
 sea and tree which we already have studied where normally you select a particular attribute
 as your root attribute for example and its possible values will actually make their path
 right and then you select an attribute here select an attribute here select here and all
 of this one has back of the mathematics but we are not going actually how actually this
 has been built but one this has been built for us as human it is very easy that we can
 induce the rules and based on those rules we can make certain the sea and we can say
 oh if your loan is not approved or if you are not going to play the tennis because of
 this one because the humidity is low or the temperature is high or your age value is this
 one so that is why you reach to that particular sea and so those models they we call it as
 instantly interpretable or inherently interpretable means they are by birth you can say they are
 the explainable right anybody who can see and the simple linear regression as well very
 easy for us you can say if it is a 2 gb ram then this much cost if it is 4 gb then this
 much cost if it is iphone 14 this cost you find one 15 this card if your iphone 16 this
 is the cost so easily anybody can relate and understand as soon as you are growing into
 the models as soon as you are increasing the storage capacity your price your cost is also
 increasing so very easy to understand how actually the model is working and so on the
 second problem is if you have the black box model which most of your models are for that
 one we need to understand what important features the model has considered in order to understand
 the things right in order to understand and making that particular to see and for that
 one we will study about 3 things one is the shapely the second one is lime and the third
 one is eld5 which are very easy so lime is basically local interpretable model agnostic
 explanation right so for example lime approach provides explanation for instance prediction
 of a model what is the target that drives like what actually reach to the adhesion so
 for example you say you have a model here this is your data and data set you you got
 a flu for example and then it will explain you why you we have assigned you the flu because
 you were sneezing you were having headache and there was no fatigue so that is the reason
 we actually assigned to that particular label similar case for example if they assign typhoid
 so maybe they will give more weightage here to the vomiting or if they assign you the
 label for example covid they they might say that your platelets are decreasing and then
 you you have a running nose and so on so that are some of the reasons which I considered
 in order to reach to that particular decision to that prediction label so that is get through
 the line right so start with the normal image and use the black box model to produce a probability
 distribution over the classes so for example here they say this is the original image and
 they will actually interpret different components of that image and based on that one they will
 assign the particular label for example here they can have one chunk of images like this
 one one chunk is this one one check is this and then they will assign the probability
 so maybe if if this is the image and if it is the had been divided like this so they
 might say this is a frog for example or they might say that if you just have these kind
 of balls here so they might say that this this is a snooker table or billiard table
 for example and this is the probability probability is very low and this may be a balloon because
 you have different colors and so on and then the probability is again very low so the high
 probability is that it is a frog which is on a for example a leaf of a tree and so on
 so it gives the different probability to to each of the label which is being assigned
 and then you can say okay this label got the high probability so that could be one of the
 reasons second is your shapely values in that one you gonna use a shape library which is
 very easy so for example they say this is the house and its price is for example this
 one so it will give you the understanding that what could be the reasons its price is
 high so for example if somebody is buying a house any anywhere you you are doing you
 are living into different house some of you most of you are international students so
 they might be living on a rental property so whenever they advertise this property so
 they always mention that it is closer to the school closer to the supermarket closer to
 the train station and so on or maybe it is on the first floor on the ground floor for
 example or maybe it is on the fourth floor so where you can have view of the ocean and
 so on you can watch the beaches from there and and so on so based on that one they their
 price can actually increase and we have to understand if it is something is very closer
 to the shore so we can understand maybe it is closer to the ocean so because of the view
 as much as you will go high into that high rise building so the price would high but
 if you are living on to other sides other areas and then maybe if you have closer to
 the supermarket or closer to the school for example or bus station train station that
 might be the increase would be in your price and so on so it will actually explain you
 give the different values to different attributes so Shapley is basically Shapley adaptive explanation
 goal of shape is to explain the prediction of an instance x by computing the contribution
 of each features to the prediction so very simple code you can import shape so that is
 what I mentioned that you can copy paste this code into your assessment at the end maybe
 just for one of the example when you are discussing after the result so you would say for example
 you already applied to random forest regressor right so of course now it would be random
 forest classifier not the regression because you are not doing the regression and then
 you can create shape and model that fit and then shape values give that model here and
 it will give you that bar chart so it will give you that alcohol has the higher priority
 if the alcohol value is high then the overall quality of your wine would be high and that
 is what you can just simply see in your red wine white wine data set if your alcohol value
 is high you gonna actually have the high quality value between 0 to 10 and if it is a lower
 then you can have low though other attributes are also contributing but not that much as
 you can see free sugar dioxide residual sugar citric acid and so on our density or fix acid
 dt but alcohol has a maximum contribution for that particular example so you can just
 have shaped our summary plot and it will give you that kind of summary similarly you can
 just have shape summary plot shape values extreme and you can have this kind of diagram
 here you can see the high contribution is for the alcohol feature then sulfates and
 so on and then this actually shows that these particular attributes they have very low contributions
 and these are very high similarly for example for the covid one so you would see that running
 nose are decreasing the platelets count they have more number of influence on your final
 results similarly for typhoid the vomiting fever along with other symptoms would have
 the maximum impact as compared to your height or age or area season or could be other attribute
 other features into your data set as well so that is shapely you can just copy paste
 that according to your second and third assessment to implement the explainability very easy
 for you the last one is the ele5 python library which also allows to visualize and debug the
 various machine learning models using unified api it is also built in sport for several
 machine learning frameworks and provides a way to explain black box models so say these
 are the features for very famous titanic data set for example and then from here you just
 have to import show weights for example you implement this extreme gradient boosting classifier
 that is one of the in sampler algorithm in sampling techniques we already have studied
 and then you fit your training data and then you say show weights and here you would see
 the way so where the priority was given to the female gender this particular feature
 firstly the sex and then the value is the female that has the highest weighty that is
 given in order to assign the particular label and so on right similarly explaining predictions
 show prediction give another example and that is another chart here so you will see the
 this particular feature and its particular value has plus 1.6 contribution and where
 the other one has in negative or in plus and so on
 right i hope this makes sense which you can easily understand and can easily implement
 in your second and third assessments very easy so you can understand that explainability
 is really very important and to implement that explainability you can either use the
 ele5 python library you can use shape which is very famous or you can use the lime which
 will actually give you different diagrams different bar charts to show the significance
 the contribution of each features and based on that one you can actually discuss that
 this particular features has very much importance toward assigning that particular label so
 any any question any doubt you may have to understand this one please do ask yes any
 any question any doubt guys
 you
 okay any any question you may explore the resources available here if you go to this
 one that will also give you some ideas related to week seven so explainable ai you can have
 a look to these resources right and then you can perform these activities so similarly
 you will have one discussion forum here there is another bank loan activity using open source
 toolkit where they actually implement this one and the other one is implementing the
 shapely shape explainer dashboard so you may have a look to this one so what is shape when
 it has been implemented what is its theory we don't need to understand and go into detail
 of that we are more into how actually this could be implemented so you will see here
 if if they have given the code so you can just implement any two of them we have given
 you the code for today for this diagram for this one so you can just use that to course
 in in your assessment to implement and clearly says that you implemented the explainable
 ai.
 yes any further question you have so please go through these activities and if there would
 be any question please let me know okay so you'll upload the recording for assessment
 as well right for assessment yeah that we talked earlier today i missed the class in
 the beginning that's right yeah yeah that recording definitely would have been saved
 maybe all right but that would be available i will rename it properly assessment to discussion
 so you can watch that recording in order to understand it sounds good thank you so much
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 so guys to your activities and if there would be any question please don't hesitate to ask
 otherwise i will see you next week please watch the recordings which is very important
 i will rename it properly and i will send an announcement as well for your following
 assessments okay all the best thank you thank you thank you professor no worries no worries
 have a good day guys bye
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
