 Good morning, everyone.
 Good morning.
 Good morning.
 I can see two Victor, OK?
 One Victor is with different surnames.
 Good morning.
 Good morning, Kannan.
 So I hope you guys are doing well.
 So let's start the today's lecture.
 Quickly have a recap of what we have
 discussed in our last class.
 Can anybody quickly tell me about what is machine learning?
 Yes?
 Hirani, Kannan, again, Victor?
 Machine learning is algorithm results.
 It is algorithm results, right?
 Correct?
 Yeah, machine learning--
 It's making predictions, predictions or decisions.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, with using different kinds of algorithms,
 machine learning making--
 machine learning-- our machine learning model
 giving us outcomes.
 OK, good.
 Yes, Victor, do you want to add anything?
 Yes, machine learning is an algorithm
 which is learned by data, unlike other algorithm
 with prepared instructions.
 OK.
 Yes, Hirani, again?
 So last time we discussed that machine learning
 is a branch of artificial intelligence which
 performs different actions, which includes prediction,
 association mining, regression, and so on,
 without explicitly being programmed.
 So normally, the machine learning algorithms
 trained on the data, and then it performs various tasks.
 Then we also discussed about the difference between machine
 learning algorithm and machine learning model.
 Can anybody quickly tell me the difference
 between these two terms?
 I remember that machine learning algorithm is--
 actually, algorithm-- machine learning result--
 machine learning outcome is result of machine learning
 algorithms.
 Say again?
 So with machine learnings, our models result is--
 Machine learning models are the results?
 OK.
 Yeah, results of the algorithms with different kinds
 of algorithms.
 Something like KNN could be-- or linear regression models
 algorithms.
 So these are helping to predict.
 And with using different kinds of algorithms,
 we can choose the best fit and keep going up.
 OK.
 Anybody else which can differentiate
 between machine learning algorithm and machine learning
 model?
 Yes, Victor, please go ahead.
 So machine learning algorithm is how we learn our model,
 but model is what we get after learning like that.
 OK, so machine learning algorithms
 are basically step-by-step instructions
 to perform any task.
 And once those algorithms are executed on a certain data,
 so it learns the patterns out of that data,
 and the output becomes your machine learning model.
 So you can say machine learning models are basically
 the machine learning algorithms already executed and learned
 on a specific data.
 Yeah, exactly.
 Yes.
 You just mentioned machine learning algorithm
 set of rules or procedures used for learning from data,
 whereas model is the output created
 by applying the algorithm to a specific data set.
 Perfect.
 Yes, correct.
 You again, thank you so much.
 So yeah, so then we discussed about two tasks which mostly
 the machine learning can do.
 One was the supervised learning, the other
 was the unsupervised learning.
 Anybody tell me difference between these two terms?
 In supervised learning, the algorithm is labeled.
 We are giving the example data.
 No, the machine learning algorithms
 are labeled or the data is labeled?
 The algorithm is labeled in supervised learning.
 What do you mean by algorithm is labeled?
 No.
 The data needs label.
 But you--
 What I remember is we have sample data.
 And in that data, the model already knows the result.
 And when we give new data, it is comparing with that data.
 Supervised learning, as I remembered at least,
 was like that.
 Did you understand that?
 Yeah, you can accept the example that you have given is correct.
 But the definition which you are telling
 about the supervised learning is not 100% correct.
 You mentioned machine learning algorithms are labeled.
 Like machine learning algorithms are a set of instructions.
 That doesn't need any labeling and so on.
 And another thing which I want to clarify with your point
 is when we say about label, label
 means the name of the feature.
 Or you can say name of the feature.
 So normally in machine learning, the word label
 is used for the resultant attribute.
 Resultant attributes, because all of those
 are the attribute.
 For example, if I talk about the medical data,
 and you will say, OK, how much is your blood pressure?
 How much is your blood sugar?
 Do you have any history?
 Do you have any cardiac problem?
 And so on.
 Do you have flu?
 Do you have any fever?
 How much fever?
 What is the value and so on?
 And then the final attribute is whether you have a COVID
 or you don't have a COVID.
 So all of these are the attribute,
 whether it is blood sugar, whether it is temperature
 value, whether it is any history, whether it
 is blood pressure, and so on.
 And also this particular attribute, the COVID result,
 whether it is yes or no, whether you have the COVID or not,
 is also an attribute.
 But that attribute, we call it as a label.
 So normally, in supervised learning,
 we do have that label.
 We do have that attribute.
 We know that attribute, what we are going to do.
 Of course, we know the task.
 OK, we are doing classification and regression.
 But other than that, we know that particular attribute
 which we have to do the prediction.
 So that is important.
 So label means that particular attribute.
 Another thing in some wording, in some definition,
 you will also find this label word.
 You will find, oh, the data should be label.
 What does that mean?
 It means the data or the features or the attributes,
 whatever your data has, should have features,
 should have name of the features.
 For example, if you give the image of a face, for example,
 it should have label.
 What does that mean?
 It means it has already identified that this is nose,
 this is forehead, these are the cheeks, these are the chin,
 these are the lips.
 And it means it has labels.
 All of the things within that data
 have attribute attached to it.
 Similarly, if you will see any image,
 any picture of your room, wherever
 you are sitting at the moment to take this class.
 So maybe it is already identified
 that this is your TV screen, this is your monitor,
 this is your laptop, this is your mouse,
 these are the walls, these are the bed, these are the sceneries,
 these are the fan, these are the birds, and so on.
 So all of these things are already labeled.
 It means it has the name of the attribute.
 Because later on, when you will grow in machine learning,
 you will find another technique which they call it
 as semi-supervised learning.
 It means there are certain labels available,
 but there are certain labels which are not available.
 Or you can understand semi-supervised learning
 in a way that there are certain faces which
 has the label data, means you have already
 identified what is nose, what is forehead, what is so on.
 But for some of the faces, you don't
 have that particular identification.
 In that case, you will use that knowledge that you already
 have, you will use those labels which you already
 have to learn that in the middle,
 you have a nose on the top of your eyes,
 you have a forehead on the other side of your nose,
 these are the cheeks at the bottom of your nose,
 you have lips, and then under the lips, you will have a chin.
 So you will use that knowledge in order
 to identify some features in other faces
 where don't have these labels.
 So in short, that kind of data which has certain labels
 or which doesn't have certain labels,
 the learning on that particular data
 is also called semi-supervised learning.
 So the point which I want to make is this label word.
 Label means the name of the feature.
 You can call it as feature, you can call it as attribute,
 you can call it as label.
 But you can't say that every attribute is label.
 Normally, you can say, but normally in machine learning,
 the final resultant attribute which
 you want to predict if you are doing the prediction
 or if you are doing the regression,
 that would be named as your label.
 So if you will have certain data,
 somebody can ask you, OK, what is the label?
 It means they are asking you the resultant attribute
 which you want to classify.
 I hope I have cleared this point, the labeling word.
 So Eugene mentioned that supervised learning prediction
 uses label data set, unsupervised learning,
 discovery, unlabeled data set.
 Yes, so here is the point.
 Normally, if you will read the literature on the internet,
 some of the websites, they will have this definition
 as Eugene mentioned, that unsupervised learning discovery,
 it is unlabeled data set.
 So now you have to clarify the concept or the thing
 which the Eugene mentioned is 100% correct,
 but you have to understand what unlabeled data set means here.
 So unlabeled means it doesn't have the final label.
 But if you are considering label as an attribute, so of course,
 even the unsupervised learning, you will have the labels.
 You know the name of the features.
 If you don't know the names of the feature,
 then how can you cluster them?
 How can you let them to be separated into various groups?
 If I don't have any information, whether you have a machine
 learning knowledge before or you do not have a machine learning
 knowledge before, or which country you come from,
 what is your gender, whether you have done any computer science
 or AI degree before, or I don't have your state information,
 I don't have your campus in which you are enrolled in,
 if I don't have those labels, then how can I cluster you?
 How can I let you to be separated into the groups?
 Oh, these are the students from Adelaide campus.
 These are the males.
 These are the females.
 These are offshore students.
 These are onshore students.
 These are international students.
 These are the domestic students.
 So in all of these one, I need to have the feature information.
 But mostly, the websites which are
 mentioning that unsupervised learning is unlabeled data set.
 It means it doesn't have the final resulting attribute.
 It doesn't know what label I have to predict,
 because it will just analyze your data.
 And based on that analysis, it will let it to be
 clusters into various groups.
 I hope everyone understood from this discussion.
 Yes, thank you.
 So as you can mention, and as you mentioned, Khan,
 as well, in supervised learning, we know the final attribute.
 And that is why, as I mentioned in my previous class as well,
 and what we are following in this class,
 that we will keep repeating these concepts,
 because these concepts are the gist of this machine learning
 course.
 If you will score an HD, and if somebody will ask you,
 OK, can you clearly differentiate between these two
 terms, and you don't use that right words to explain
 these concepts, or you don't have the right examples
 to clearly differentiate between these two terms,
 then there is no point to have an HD.
 So that is why I will keep asking.
 You will keep answering me.
 And then you will use different words,
 which we will use to further discuss and clarify
 why that word needs to be there, or why
 that word shouldn't be used while describing any concept.
 So supervised learning, we know the final attribute.
 We know the label for which we know the resulting attribute
 which we are going to classify.
 Whereas in unsupervised learning,
 we don't have any idea of the labeling attribute.
 Then in supervised learning, we further discussed two concepts.
 One was classification, and other was regression.
 Can anybody quickly tell me the difference
 between these two terms?
 Could you repeat, Professor?
 I couldn't catch you.
 The difference between classification and regression.
 Classification, can I explain by giving examples?
 Yeah, yeah, yeah, please go ahead.
 For example, if something is black or white or red,
 and if we are going to try to predict what it is,
 this is a classification.
 But if we are going to predict by using previous data,
 if we are going to predict tomorrow's weather degree,
 it will be regression.
 So in the classification, don't you use the previous data?
 Yeah, we are using previous data as well.
 But it already knows what it is.
 It's labeled.
 It's labeled.
 In regression--
 So in classification, it is labeled.
 Then in regression, isn't it labeled or--
 Could be labeled as well.
 But the main difference in my mind, if I'm wrong,
 you can correct me, Professor.
 I'm just telling what I know.
 No, no, I'm just asking the cross-question to clarify.
 I'm not saying that you are telling it.
 So I'm just asking the cross-question
 to clarify the wording that you are using.
 Yeah, yeah, please go ahead.
 Yeah, in regression, we are trying
 to predict what is going to be continuous data,
 the continuous result. But in the classification,
 we are just predicting if it's black or white or horse
 or cat, human or animal.
 Yeah, I can see these things.
 Yeah, and you can feel it.
 Yeah, Professor, I'm happy to hear.
 Yes, anybody else?
 Anybody else? Rakesh, Simon, Victor, Irani?
 Your classification is-- we have to classify our data.
 For example, is it apple or pineapple?
 But regression is like--
 if we know that the price of fruits
 is seasonal based on if it's summer or winter.
 So we have to predict next price,
 based on what season right now.
 Yes, Simon, we can't hear you.
 Can you unmute and try to speak up?
 OK.
 You again mentioned in the chat that classification
 is categorical, whereas regression
 is prediction of trend based on the existing data.
 Yes, correct.
 Yes, Khan, do you want to add anything?
 I want to ask a question.
 Yeah.
 For example, both in regression and classification.
 Yes, of course, we are going to use the previous datas
 to predict, but I'm talking about both of them.
 Both of them could be supervised and unsupervised learning.
 For example, with clustering, usually what I know
 is we are using unsupervised learning.
 But in supervised learning, we already
 know the result and making predictions according to that.
 I think I'm confusing about this situation.
 OK.
 We will discuss about confusion.
 Hi, Cameron, can you hear me now?
 Yeah, I can hear you now.
 Yes, I'm on board.
 OK.
 So classification is like choosing a category which
 predict a level or class.
 Example, in medical, it's can cancer or no cancer
 pass or fail.
 And regression is predicting a number which
 predicts a continuous value.
 For example, house of price is 1 million, 2 million.
 Temperature for tomorrow, like 28 degrees
 Celsius or 29 degrees Celsius.
 Correct.
 Yes.
 Thank you so much, Simon and everyone.
 Yes, all of you have discussed about these two concepts
 correctly.
 I can summarize it.
 Classification and regression, both
 are supervised learning tasks.
 These are not unsupervised learning tasks.
 In classification, because classification and regression,
 since both are supervised learning tasks,
 it means we already aware what is the final level, which
 we are going to predict.
 What is the resultant attribute?
 Now only the difference between classification and regression,
 as the region mentioned, is the type of that attribute.
 If the type of that attribute, that attribute means,
 I'm talking about the resulting attribute,
 I'm talking about the labeled attribute,
 the final outcome which we are going to predict.
 If the type of that attribute is categorical,
 it has certain categories, then the task
 will become the classification.
 And if the type of the attribute which
 we are going to predict is of type continuous,
 then it becomes your regression.
 As all of you have given example,
 if you are going to predict what would be the weather tomorrow,
 whether it would be sunny, rainy, windy, cloudy,
 you have just four categories, means
 the type of the attribute would be categorical,
 then it is classification.
 But if you are going to predict the temperature value, what
 would be the temperature tomorrow?
 Again, it would be 19 Celsius, 19.5 Celsius, 20 Celsius,
 or Fahrenheit, or whatever the scale you use.
 But it would have a range of the values
 which are continuous in nature.
 So then it becomes your regression.
 Similarly, all of the examples which
 we discussed in previous example, previous class,
 whether a file is a malware, non-malware,
 whether an email is a spam email or a ham email,
 or we discussed whether the person is COVID patient,
 non-COVID patient, cancer patient, non-cancer patient,
 whether the student will pass the course
 or will fail the course.
 All of these outcome have just only few categories
 among which we have to do the prediction.
 And further to this concept we discussed
 in our previous class, if you have just two possibilities
 between which you have to do the prediction, malware,
 non-malware, student pass, student will fail.
 Tomorrow weather is rainy, not rainy.
 Person is a cancer patient, non-cancer patient.
 Just two categories, two possibilities,
 then it becomes your binary classification.
 And if you have more than two categories,
 like tomorrow weather is rainy, windy, cloudy,
 or the grade, for example, grade is HD, distinction, pass,
 fail, so it has more than two possibilities,
 among which you have to do the prediction, right?
 Then it is your multi-class classification.
 On the other hand, if you are predicting
 the stock exchange share price,
 that would be a continuous number.
 If you are predicting the temperature value,
 if you are predicting one Australian dollar
 is equal to how many, for example, US dollar, right?
 Or if you are predicting the house prices, right?
 If you are predicting the number of COVID cases
 in a certain year, for example,
 all of these will give you a continuous number as a result.
 Then the task will become your regression.
 So having said with all of these examples,
 to be surprising, classification and regression
 both are your supervised learning tasks,
 whereas in classification,
 you have a categorical attribute which you have to predict,
 whereas in regression,
 you have a type of the attribute is your continuous,
 where you have the two possibilities in classification,
 the task will become your binary classification,
 and where you have more than two classes,
 among which you have to do the prediction,
 then the task will become your multi-class classification.
 Then we also discussed about unsupervised learning,
 where we do not have any idea
 of what we are going to predict.
 We just analyze our data.
 Based on that analysis,
 we will just let our data
 to be grouped into various clusters.
 As I had given you the example before,
 you have, I can see different students enrolled
 into this class, attending this class.
 I can cluster them based on their gender.
 I can cluster them based on their origin,
 based on their country,
 based on which campus they are joining,
 based on whether they are domestic
 or international students, and so on.
 So in all of these, we did not have any idea before.
 We just analyze, and based on that analysis,
 we will do that prediction,
 or we will let our data to be clustered
 into various groups.
 So that is unsupervised learning.
 And then we have another concept as well,
 which also come under the umbrella of unsupervised learning,
 because the one we discussed, that is called clustering,
 where you are clustering your data into various groups.
 Another task is, which also comes under the area
 of unsupervised learning, that is your outlier analysis.
 Or the other name of outlier analysis
 is your anomaly detection.
 Enomaly detection.
 So in anomaly detection, or in outlier analysis,
 basically you are trying to find out those data instances
 which are highly deviating to the rest of your data.
 Their behavior, their distance, their feature values
 are highly distinct to the rest of your distribution
 of your data.
 So sometimes it is really very important
 to find out those patterns.
 For example, if you will have a scan of your brain,
 MRI scan, all of the cells would be of one type.
 Maybe if somebody has any cancer cells,
 that would be highly distinct to the rest of your data.
 Similarly, if you will find all of the houses
 in a certain suburb are very closer to each other,
 but there is one or two houses which are far away
 from that particular suburb.
 So you will say these are the outliers.
 So we will study more in detail about these tasks.
 Do you have any question about these concepts
 which we discussed machine learning,
 we discussed about classification, regression,
 clustering, outlier analysis.
 Similarly, we have another task which we call it
 as association analysis.
 That's also come under the umbrella
 of unsupervised learning.
 The best example to understand the association analysis
 is the basket value analysis.
 Basket value analysis means that you just go
 to any grocery store, say you go to Kohl's,
 you go to Willy's and then you will find what are the items
 which are highly associated with each other.
 For example, if you will see different kind of
 like fast food items,
 different kind of fries and chips and so on.
 And next that one, if you go to any shop,
 you will find there are freezer of cans,
 different soft drinks, though both of them,
 they are not related to each other, right?
 Drinks has nothing to do with fries.
 Our drink has nothing to do with chips.
 If you have chips, you should come with some lollies
 and some biscuits, some other snacks.
 And if it is a drink, then it should come with other water
 and juices and so on.
 But why if you go to any shop, any fast food item,
 you will find these two items because people tend
 to buy these items together, right?
 Wherever you will find onions,
 you will find the potatoes there, right?
 You will find all the vegetables there.
 Sometimes you go to any traditional grocery store,
 you will find also meat there.
 They are selling the halal meat, for example.
 So some of the people, they tend to buy
 some other traditional items from their home country.
 And they also want to buy the halal meat as well,
 for example, there.
 Though these two has nothing to do with each other,
 but there is a tendency, they analyze
 that there are the purchasing behavior of different people
 that they are trying to buy these items together.
 It means they are highly associated with each other.
 That will help to apply your association analysis
 to solve various real life problems.
 For example, customer segmentation.
 If you will find which are the customers
 which have the same purchasing behavior,
 or you can set up your shop properly.
 Because if you are just analyze how the people
 are trying to buy, wherever you will find the cigarette,
 you will find the waves there.
 Wherever you will find the ice cream,
 you will find some other stuff there, right?
 Yes, Irani, yes, that's correct.
 So you will find bread and milk together,
 you will find somebody will buy the beer,
 they will also find the nappies, for example.
 They might having any weekend night, for example,
 and they are doing drinking and so on.
 So there would be a tendency,
 there would be an association between certain items
 which are being sold together.
 So that is called association analysis.
 And that's help you to set up different deals, for example,
 and that will help you to promote your business
 to increase the value of your business and so on.
 So that is another machine learning task
 which comes under the umbrella of your unsupervised learning
 that is association analysis.
 So in supervised learning,
 we discussed classification and regression.
 We also discussed about semi-supervised learning.
 We discussed about the difference of model
 and machine learning algorithm.
 We discussed about the outlier analysis.
 We discussed about the association analysis and so on.
 So any question, any doubt,
 anything you wanna add up as of now?
 Or if you can quickly search,
 take two minutes to search on the internet,
 what are the applications of association analysis
 in the context of machine learning?
 So in the context of machine learning,
 what are the application of association analysis?
 If you can just quickly search
 and maybe mention one or two example here,
 not exactly copy pasting from the internet,
 just try to understand and briefly one or two line
 about one of the applications of association analysis
 to solve various real life problems.
 So then we will understand this concept in a better way.
 Yes, just try to search.
 (silence)
 (silence)
 Please put into the chat window
 application of association analysis
 to solve various real life problems.
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 Search engine is based on association
 analysis, yes, because if you will try
 to search anything, right, and it will try
 to find out whom or which website it is mostly related.
 So yeah, that would be an example of association analysis.
 Co-occurrence patterns, can you elaborate it further, Simon?
 (silence)
 And you can mention fraud detection
 by identifying unusual patterns of transaction, yes.
 So most of the transactions, so it really depends
 how actually you describe your problem.
 Like this, you can problem the fraud detection problem.
 It could be a classification problem.
 It could be like association analysis problem.
 It could be an example of clustering as well.
 For example, if you are trying to find
 and categorizing the transaction which are legitimate
 or which are not legitimate, that would be your clustering.
 Or whether the transaction is a fraudulent transaction
 or a legitimate transaction, could be classification.
 Or maybe you're just analyzing what are the instructions
 which are highly deviating to the rest of your transactions.
 It could be an outline analysis.
 And or maybe you'll say, oh, which are the transactions
 which are most associated with each other?
 So then I could say, okay, these could be your transaction,
 could be an example of your association analysis.
 So it's how actually you are describing the problem.
 And it also depends on the application,
 what you are looking for, what is your task,
 what do you wanna do.
 Khan mentioned could be finding suspicious activities
 and behavior that appear together
 in your mobile banking activities.
 For example, unusual location
 and high transaction amount correctly.
 So that could be an example of association analysis.
 Association analysis is Victor mentioned search
 for relations between entities.
 Application analysis is where it can be applied.
 That's correct.
 But what is the example?
 Can any real life example where you can apply
 this association analysis to solve the real world problems?
 And then Irani mentioned YouTube.
 Instagram next video is based on our previous interest.
 Yes, you can say and in YouTube,
 you could also have an example of cluster analysis
 where you will listen certain kind of songs,
 different kind of, different genre
 and then they can make a playlist for you, right?
 So that would be your example of your cluster analysis.
 But if you will watch a certain song
 and then if it will see that whether it is related
 to the same singer or same genre or same kind of tone,
 then it would be your association analysis, okay?
 Victor mentioned example is online shopping
 is the platform where good associations could be applied.
 Yes, you can say that these are the food items, right?
 And these are the different sections.
 If you go to Kohl's or Woolley's,
 so you will say these are your,
 where you can find the different kind of vegetables,
 where you can find different daily items,
 you can find a barbecue section and so on.
 So yeah, so I hope you understood now
 what is basically suggestions for the next purchase.
 Yes, maybe sometimes they say,
 oh, do you also wanna buy this one?
 For example, if you go to any online shopping store,
 they will find the related items which you can also buy.
 So that would be an example of association analysis.
 So I'm very happy that you understood
 and can easily distinguish these concepts.
 Simon mentioned find links between machine settings,
 process and defects, high temperature, fast speed,
 defect probability using predictive maintenance.
 Yes, you can use up there.
 So now we have clear idea of these concepts
 with different real life problems as well.
 So know if there would be any problem.
 So we also discussed that it would be based on
 what would be tasks what you want
 out of that particular problem based on that one,
 you can apply any of the machine learning tasks
 to solve that real world problem.
 Okay, so now in our today's class,
 we have to discuss about
 what we have to discuss.
 We have to discuss about the Chris DM architecture,
 Chris DM framework.
 So Chris DM is approval approach framework,
 the way to do the things to organize
 and show successful completion
 of a machine learning project.
 This is very important to understand
 that what Chris DM architecture,
 what Chris DM framework is,
 because in all of the three assessment,
 you are following this Chris DM architecture, right?
 And it's very easy.
 There are certain steps that on each step,
 you have to follow what tasks you are going to do, right?
 And we have to clearly understand
 what you are going to mention in those tasks.
 So here it is mentioned if you go down to the real guide
 to the Chris DM architecture in your module section,
 you will find this particular figure there.
 So in this particular figure,
 you will see the first phase is of your,
 Rakesh, I think you are not muted, okay.
 So in the first phase is your business understanding,
 that is very important.
 Next step is your data understanding.
 Next is your data preparation.
 Then you have data modeling.
 Then you have the model evaluation,
 and then you have the model deployment.
 That's what the six phases of the Chris DM architecture are,
 or you can say this is also your data mining life cycle.
 So if there would be any data reaching up to the deployment,
 what are different steps which we need to follow?
 So as I mentioned,
 Chris DM architecture has six different phases.
 The first one is your business understanding, right?
 Business understanding, that is the first phase
 where you need to determine
 what are your business objectives.
 That is very important.
 That's what I was discussing about
 that you have to define your business success criteria.
 You have to define the process.
 What is your task?
 What you are going to do?
 Whether you are going to do any clustering,
 whether you are going to do regression, classification,
 what is your success criteria?
 What, for example, you say,
 if I would be able to achieve 97% accuracy
 for our classification model,
 that is my success criteria.
 Then I will say this model is the best one, right?
 And so on.
 So what is the task that you are going to do?
 What you wanna achieve out of that process?
 And what is your success criteria?
 That is the first step or sub-step
 of your business understanding.
 You have to assess your situation as well.
 You have to see what are your available resources?
 Do you have the data set?
 Do you have the infrastructure?
 Do you have the right platforms to execute those things?
 Do you have the right personals
 in order to perform those experiments?
 Do you have the project requirement?
 What do you wanna do?
 Have you assessed any risk?
 What would be the risk involved into that one?
 Or what would be the mitigation strategies
 in order to avoid, in order to mitigate those risks?
 And then you need to do a cost benefit analysis as well.
 So what would be the cost?
 How much cost it would involve?
 And then what are you gonna get out of it, right?
 So all of these things come
 under the umbrella of your assess situation.
 Then you have to set up your data mining goals.
 So we are getting this term again
 and again, that is data mining.
 So that is out of scope of this subject
 but that is a separate course, right?
 So data mining is basically the extraction
 of interesting patterns from the huge amount of data.
 So if you are trying to extract,
 Irani, I will come back to your question, okay?
 So in this one, data mining,
 I'm explaining about the data mining.
 So data mining is a process.
 What you are applying for that process to extract,
 what you want to extract, the interesting patterns,
 the hidden patterns from the data, right?
 So that process is called your data mining, right?
 Now you ask the software models come
 into the picture of Chris Diem.
 What software models you are referring here, Irani?
 (silence)
 No, that has, so those are some of the processes
 that you normally use in order to develop your software.
 So in that one, this Chris Diem architecture
 is the umbrella stuff, right?
 So whether it is agile, whether it is prototyping,
 whether it is waterfall, whether it is a rad,
 rapid application development or whatever, right?
 So those are the ways to develop certain software.
 This is how you will get the data,
 how you will apply, what methods you will apply,
 whether you have the right infrastructure and so on,
 and then in that one.
 So more or less, you can say,
 you can relate it to any software model.
 For example, not exactly the agile or waterfall,
 the normal SDLC, which is where you will actually
 gather the requirement, then you will do the analysis,
 then you will do the design stage, the development stage,
 then your testing stage, and then your deployment stage.
 So more or less, you have a flow how your software will work
 starting from the requirements up to the development,
 but that is with the software.
 Here, you are more with the data related stuff, right?
 The task would be the same, right?
 But for machine learning consideration, that's correct,
 that's correct.
 So Chris DM architecture is basically
 your cross industry standard process for data mining,
 C for cross industry, right?
 And I for your industry,
 and then S for your standard process for data mining, right?
 So that is how and what Chris DM architecture stands for.
 So as we were discussing,
 you have to determine your data mining goals.
 What is your business objective?
 And what would be your success will look like?
 As I mentioned, if you are doing classification,
 so you will set up a metric.
 What is your metric to compare whether it is accuracy,
 whether it is any, for example, net present value,
 if you talk about any financial stuff,
 and with respect to machine learning,
 you will say that MAE value,
 like your median error value, for example,
 or your accuracy, or your precision,
 or your recall, or your G means and so on.
 So you have to define a metric,
 and you have to define a goal.
 What would be your success when you will say,
 oh, I have achieved using this model,
 what was my objective?
 And then you have to have a plan,
 what are the tools and techniques, technologies
 that you are going to use, Python or Jupyter you are using,
 and which language you are coding,
 which volume you are using and working in,
 and also you will define the framework TensorFlow and so on.
 So all of these things will come under your business
 understanding.
 So in business understanding,
 you will define your business objective,
 you will define your goals,
 you will define what is your success criteria,
 what is your considered metric,
 and then you will also assess your situation
 at the same time as well,
 where you will define what you have,
 or do you have the right stuff in terms of personals,
 in terms of technologies, in terms of cost,
 in terms of time,
 in order to implement or achieve that particular target.
 So that is the first phase of your Chris DM architecture,
 Chris DM framework.
 The second one is the data understanding.
 Now, the data is the most important thing
 in any machine learning application.
 If you don't have the right data,
 you will not able to achieve doesn't matter,
 you will apply the best model in order to do that task.
 If your data is not good, right?
 What do I mean data is not good?
 It means data might have certain problems, right?
 Or you have to divide your data properly, right?
 So that is very important.
 So data in any machine learning context is very important.
 So the second phase of your Chris DM architecture
 is your data understanding.
 How you will understand your data,
 you will explore your data,
 you will describe your data using different permits,
 different figures and diagrams,
 different ways to visualize your data
 to see if there any problem into your data.
 You will verify its quality, whether it is good,
 whether there is any problem into your data,
 whether there is any inconsistencies in your data,
 whether there is any redundancies in your data.
 Now I have used two terms,
 data redundancy and data inconsistency.
 These two terms are also very important
 and it is important that you can clearly differentiate
 between these two terms.
 So the first is data redundancy.
 So you can say data inconsistency
 is the follow-up of data redundancy
 or due to data redundancy, you would have the problem
 or you may have the problem of data inconsistency.
 So data redundancy is just the duplication of your data.
 Multiple copies of the same data is called data redundancy.
 If somebody will ask you, what is data redundancy?
 So you will simply say multiple copies of same data, right?
 So for example, you might have your files saved on one drive
 and similarly you have the same folders
 saved on your hard drive, right?
 So you have two separate folders on two separate locations.
 One is your hard drive, one is your one drive, right?
 But of the same type, you might have doing any assessment,
 you have one copy there, one copy here,
 sometimes you work here, sometimes you work here and so on.
 So that is called your data redundancy.
 Then what is the problem, right?
 Similarly, whatever the folder you are having
 in any part of your hard disk,
 you will try to sync it with the one drive.
 So what will happen if you will make any change here
 into this one or you directly assess it from the one drive,
 you will see the same version, right?
 It means that is not data redundancy, right?
 And that's what you get rid of the problem
 that the data redundancy could create, right?
 Because data redundancy is two separate copies
 of the same data, that is data redundancy.
 Now, what is data inconsistency?
 Data inconsistency is multiple
 and conflicting version of same data.
 If you have multiple copies of the same data,
 but at the same times,
 you have a contradictory version of that data
 that is called data inconsistency.
 For example, you have visited the student services.
 They have all of your record, for example,
 and the finance department, they, if they have,
 which is not the case at Torrance,
 but if they have a separate copies of your personal details,
 right, or maybe immigration asks you
 if there would be any change into your address,
 you have to update us, right?
 Similarly, university also have your personal information,
 your address, your visa details, and so on,
 your phone number, your residential address, right?
 So you change your address,
 you move to a different location,
 you updated your phone number.
 So you might have updated that information
 with the student services center,
 but the finance department, the immigration department,
 they have your previous address,
 they have your previous phone numbers.
 So they will say, oh, Victor, this name is this one,
 father name is this one, what is the phone number?
 They will say phone number is this one.
 But at the same times,
 they will see the finance department, they will say,
 no, Victor phone number is this one, right?
 So problem is the Victor updated first information
 with the student services,
 but not with the finance department.
 And why this problem arose here?
 Because of the data residency,
 because the student services, the finance department,
 they had the separate copies.
 If they have the shared copy,
 know if at any point if they will update it,
 so then anybody can easily access those ones.
 So that will not create any problem.
 Okay, so I hope you have understood up till here
 that what is data redundancy
 and what is data inconsistency.
 Data redundancy is multiple copies of same data
 and data inconsistency is multiple
 and conflicting version of same data.
 So, but all of these things,
 you have to explore your data
 to see more details of your data,
 what is, how you will be realize it,
 you will make different diagrams,
 which we will study in our upcoming lectures,
 you will examine your data to see in data
 into a different formats and so on.
 That's what you will do at the second stage
 of your CRISP-DM architecture.
 That is your data understanding stage.
 Then the next one is when you have verified the data quality
 when you have realized your data,
 now you have to prepare your data, right?
 So first thing into the data preparation
 is you have to split your data.
 That is the first stage that you have to do, right?
 So splitting data means,
 as we discussed in our previous class,
 data could be divided into two main stages or three stages.
 First is your training data.
 Second one is your validation data.
 And the third one is your testing data.
 So mostly people will say training data and test data.
 So they include the validation data
 in the training of your model.
 So they consider it as a training data.
 So training data and testing data.
 So mostly people use 80% of your data
 or 75% of your data to train their model
 and the rest of the 25% or 20% to test your model.
 So that is the first important thing
 is to split your data and select the right data, right?
 What documents you gonna use?
 What documents you gonna have to exclude or include?
 Then if there would be any problem into your data,
 is there are any outliers in your data
 that might creating a problem?
 You have to clean your data properly.
 If there would be, as I mentioned,
 data is the most important things, garbage in garbage out.
 If you will take a picture into the dark mode,
 when you will see it, it will be in a dark mode.
 If it would be a sunny day,
 you will capture an image there,
 the resolution better you will capture,
 and then you will analyze it, you will get the right one.
 So garbage in garbage out.
 That is the first thing which we already discussed
 about the quality of your data, right?
 And if there would be any problem in your data,
 if there are any outliers in your data,
 you have to remove those one as well.
 That is very important.
 Or maybe the data integration as well.
 There are certain sources where the data is coming from,
 or maybe there are different features
 which are like not really necessary to be separated.
 You might need to integrate them together
 to form one feature instead of multiple features.
 For example, some might have street address,
 some might have postal code,
 or maybe your state information, country information,
 suburbs, city, all of these together, right, separate.
 Then you might have combined all of this one
 and make an address attribute.
 It really depends on your task.
 If sometimes you have to divide the people
 into different states and to different other things,
 then you might need to, yes.
 Ligandap, yes, anything you wanna say?
 - Hi, Cameron.
 - Hi, yes, please.
 - Sorry to interrupt.
 I just joined the class right now.
 - It's okay. (chuckles)
 Yes, please.
 - I missed the first class
 because I could not register to this subject.
 So on Friday, luckily, I was registered to this subject.
 And I thought of joining earlier
 because I took these classes online.
 So it's, timing is 11.30 a.m.
 So 11.30 a.m. to 2.30 a.m.
 So I didn't know it's Brisbane time.
 I mean, it's a Sydney time.
 We have to follow the Sydney time.
 Sorry for that.
 It's my past class.
 - No worries.
 Welcome to the machine learning course
 and recordings of all the lectures are available.
 All of the things which we have discussed, you can find.
 I will also guide the way to find those one, okay?
 - Okay, thank you.
 Thank you so much.
 - Okay, no worries.
 So as we were discussing that there could be
 certain features which are unnecessarily,
 you might need to combine them, right?
 Or maybe you can also construct your data.
 You might generate new features.
 For example, if I have your date of birth,
 I can tell you how old you are, right?
 So I can get it from your date of birth up till here,
 and I can tell, okay, you are 22 years of age,
 you are 25 years of age and so on.
 So I can construct a new feature age from your date of birth.
 Similarly, if I will tell you my date of joining at Torrance,
 you can tell me how long you are with the Torrance.
 You can tell me the number of years
 I am serving with Torrance University.
 So you can either construct new features,
 you can integrate certain features,
 and maybe you can also remove certain data.
 Maybe the problem could be with the data
 where you have verified the quality.
 There are a lot of missing values.
 You have to handle those missing values.
 So for example, some people as we are,
 I'll do whenever we go to any shopping store
 or different store and they ask,
 okay, are you member with us?
 And we say, no.
 They will say, okay, can you give me your name
 and the phone number, for example.
 They don't care about the address.
 They don't care about our gender.
 They don't care about other information where we come from,
 what is our state and so on.
 And later on, if they have to do the customer segmentation,
 they can't do it because they don't have that data, right?
 They can't segregate, they can't split their clusters
 based on whether in my shop,
 whether males are coming more
 or the females are coming more.
 For example, I don't have the gender information,
 then how can I classify it, right?
 So it means there are missing values
 and there are a lot of different techniques
 in order to fill those missing values.
 Some of the techniques say, you can just ignore those rows.
 If it has many missing values across all the attribute,
 some of them says, oh, if you have a missing value
 for a specific feature,
 then don't remove the information of a row of a person,
 rather remove that particular feature
 which has the most number of reaching.
 And some also mute the values.
 They will analyze the different values which are available
 and can make assessment based on, for example,
 if the numeric values are there.
 So maybe you can take an average and fill those values.
 Maybe you can take a median and then fill up those values.
 So there are different ways to handle the problem.
 So in the last stage where we have understood our data,
 now it's time to prepare our data
 because the next stage is the modeling stage
 where we have to apply our model.
 Here we have to fix all of our problems with the data.
 If it has missing values, if it has any outlier values,
 we have to fix it.
 And because outlier detection is also very important, right?
 Because if there would be any outlier,
 it can create a problem.
 For example, if you are going to calculate
 what is the average salary in your organization.
 And in your organization, people are working on 70K, 80K,
 a lot of software engineer working on 85K, 90K, 95K.
 But there are two or three people
 who are working at a vice president level
 and some other executive positions.
 They are getting 300K, right?
 And if you will take the average, right?
 The average would become maybe 130K, right?
 Because of just those two or three people
 who are earning 300K, 250K,
 because of those two or three people,
 rest of your data is creating problem.
 And you are getting your average salary is,
 you will add them up.
 Like we everybody know that math,
 you will add 80 plus 80 plus 80 plus 95 plus 35 plus 90
 plus 98, 94 plus 250,000, then 200,000.
 5,000 and so on, right?
 And then when you will take an average,
 you will get the average salary is 130K.
 Whereas in your company, more than 80 people,
 more than 80%, 90% of the people
 have salary lower than 100K.
 How can you say that your average salary
 is 130K in your organization?
 That is because of those two or three outlines,
 which are highly deviated from the rest of your data
 and that is creating problems.
 I'm not saying that always the outliers are the problem.
 Sometimes they are of your interest.
 You want to identify those outliers.
 Like you have given example like,
 is there any anomalous transaction?
 Is there any anomalous person?
 Is there any anomalous computer or device
 connected to the network, which is creating problem?
 So your task is to identify that particular node,
 that particular person, that particular device,
 that particular application, which is creating problem.
 So sometimes it is of your interest,
 but sometimes it can create problem.
 It depends on the task, it depends on your data.
 But anyways, whatever you have to do,
 you have to do the data cleaning at this particular stage
 of your data preparation,
 which is the third stage of your CRIS DM architecture.
 Now our data is ready, we understood the features,
 we understood the objectives, goals,
 then they would become your modeling stage.
 In modeling stage, you have to define,
 because we already know what task you are doing,
 then within that task,
 you have to define your modeling technique.
 If you are doing classification,
 whether you're gonna go with the CN tree
 or sport vector machine and so on,
 and if you are doing clustering,
 then what you are going to do, right?
 Then this here, you have to generate your test design,
 you have to see which technique you are applying,
 what is your data training, testing and validation,
 and then you have to build up your model, right?
 So you can do the data splitting
 at your modeling stage as well.
 So it would be the first stage here,
 if it would be data modeling,
 or it could be the last stage of your data preparation,
 right?
 Then you have to build up your model,
 you have to let your algorithm
 to execute on that particular data,
 that is what they call their building a model,
 then you will assess your model, right?
 You will interpret your model.
 Once you have done that modeling,
 then it becomes your evaluation.
 Now you will evaluate your results,
 whatever the models you have selected here,
 you have built up a model,
 you have applied into different ways on your data,
 you have made all the assessment.
 Now you have to evaluate that assessment
 based on several metrics,
 based on several ways to look up your results.
 So you have to evaluate your results,
 evaluate the performance of your model,
 you have to do the review process,
 you have to determine the next stages,
 know what is next,
 what you are going to do next and so on.
 So all of these things will come into your evaluation stage.
 Then you have your deployment,
 in deployment you will actually install
 that particular model, right?
 That would be the last stage of your CRIS DM architecture.
 But please be aware for all of your three assessment,
 whether it is assessment one, two and three,
 you're gonna do this CRIS DM architecture,
 for whatever the task we will say you,
 for whatever the model we will advise you to implement,
 but you don't do the deployment
 for all of the three assessments.
 So you will apply all the above five stages,
 you will not do the deployment stage.
 Yes, you will have this deployment in your assessment,
 but instead of deploying that one,
 you're gonna mention the lessons learned
 into your deployment stage, right?
 So in the deployment, as in real world scenario
 is the installation of that model
 into the real life problem,
 then you will monitor how the model is doing,
 how the software is working and so on.
 That is your deployment.
 But for all of your three assessment,
 what you're gonna have in deployment,
 you will mention all the lesson learned,
 what were the mistake.
 Now you will evaluate what was your criteria,
 what was your success criteria,
 whether you have met that criteria or not,
 what was the failure,
 what was the things where you can improve
 or how the things are the result could be improved,
 how the performance of your model could be increased.
 That's what you gonna discuss into your deployment stage.
 That would be the final step of your CRIS DM architecture.
 So, so far we discussed CRIS DM architecture
 is your cross industry standard process for data mining,
 which has six stages.
 First is your business understanding,
 then is your data understanding as we discussed in detail,
 and then you will have your data preparation,
 data modeling, evaluation and your deployment stage.
 Then we have discussed all of these things in detail here,
 where we discuss determine objective,
 assess your situation,
 data understanding where you will verify,
 here you will prepare your data,
 here you will separate and apply the modeling technique,
 and then here you will evaluate those models
 and here you will mention all of your lesson learns.
 I'm gonna also send this link into the chat window,
 so where you can just have a read
 and if there is any further question you may have,
 you can ask.
 And hopefully you have already started your assessment,
 the first assessment which is due in week four.
 So, understanding of assessment is also part
 of your assessment, right?
 Part of your examination.
 So, that is why I'm not gonna discuss your assessment
 as of now.
 If you have any question, I'm happy to answer,
 but in the start of next class, next week,
 we're gonna discuss your assessment in detail.
 So, meanwhile, if you have any question,
 you can reach out to me,
 I have also my office hours on Friday,
 you can reach out to me,
 we can book up a time and so on.
 And another thing is, currently I am on leave.
 So, that is very important.
 If you will send any email to my Torrance email,
 I'm not able to assess it.
 Luckily, I even requested that maybe
 because I'm on leave for four weeks,
 already one week is passed and this is the second week.
 So, even I, on the Friday,
 they have suspended my access on my Torrance account.
 Even on the Teams, I'm not able to assess it.
 But luckily, even I requested, okay,
 we could have somebody else.
 What it is for everyone?
 - MyLearn.
 - No, MyLearn is for everyone.
 MyLearn is used with the students and so on.
 So, every teacher here has two email addresses,
 at the rate Torrance and at the rate mylearn.torrance.
 So, otherwise I was asking that somebody else can take
 and even they asked me, okay, you are on leave,
 so somebody else can teach your first four weeks
 and then you can start.
 I said, no, it's all good
 because the student might have a problem later on,
 just with the teacher and then I will jump in and so on.
 And it would be good that we will have a flow
 and I'm happy to do that one.
 So--
 - So, you're on leave since past four,
 like past week to next two weeks too?
 - Yes, yes.
 - But you're continuing class on Monday just for us?
 - Yes, yes.
 - Oh, thank you so much for that.
 - Yeah, yeah, I got a baby boy, so I'm on my paternal leave.
 They said, okay, you can take care of your baby
 and your family and so on.
 - Congratulations for that.
 - Yeah, thank you so much, thank you so much.
 So, yeah, so, but I thought, okay, let me to continue.
 So, because in the first four week,
 we have to create a main base.
 And if I'm asking you in the fifth week,
 can we have, for example, what is classification?
 And if you have a different concept,
 then it will not have any advantage
 where I want you to take, right?
 So, that is why I'm taking those one.
 So, please, if you have any problem in these four weeks,
 you can approach on my MyLearn or this chat window,
 whatever we are using.
 And you can also send me an email as well,
 which will come to me and I'm happy to answer.
 You can book a time, we can discuss any question.
 Thank you, Eugene, thank you, everyone.
 So, that is one thing.
 As the land up, how do you say your name?
 Land up.
 - Oh, it's in W, yeah, you are pronouncing correctly.
 - Okay, land up, okay.
 So, I'm also, yes, Irani, yes, please.
 - It's Harini and the thing is like,
 I'd like you to help me again with the Google collab.
 I have signed up, but yeah,
 I don't know whether I'm in the right path or not.
 So, I'd like you to-
 - So, let me to share the screen
 and tell you where to find the recordings.
 And then afterwards, we will ask you to share the screen
 and then see how we can help you, okay?
 So, firstly is all of the recordings are available
 for all the courses.
 If the teachers are recording, they're supposed to record,
 whether it is a face-to-face class
 or it is a online class,
 recording should be available for the students.
 And as I mentioned in my previous class,
 I'm working as a course coordinator
 for undergraduate cyber security program.
 If there would be any problem or you have any issue
 related to admin related stuff
 or any research related stuff, you are most welcome.
 You can discuss with me.
 So, firstly, we will see where to find the recording.
 So, you will go to your Myler.
 Let me share the screen again.
 And here you will click, select your particular subject,
 which is machine learning course for our case.
 Then you will click on online classes and chat.
 And you just need to wait for few seconds as it is.
 And here, when you click up here,
 so you will find all the recordings here.
 So, once I will stop recording,
 so it will save into the week two as well, right?
 So, when you click here,
 you will see all of our lessons are recorded here.
 So, that would be recording from the last week.
 We'll take a bit to our preview.
 (silence)
 Maybe my internet connection is slow.
 - It's the same for mine as before.
 - Okay.
 - I'm facing this issue since yesterday.
 - Okay.
 - I don't know why.
 - That is, okay.
 That is one way to see the recordings
 for any subject.
 The other way is.
 - We'll be getting a link to our email address, right?
 To our Outlook account.
 - Yeah.
 This is the second way.
 If you have opened up your Teams,
 you will click on this Teams,
 where you will see the Teams here.
 For example, this machine learning course.
 You will click on the second channel here,
 which I created lectures week one to week 12.
 Once you click here,
 you will see here three different options.
 You will click on shared.
 Normally, suppose the file tab here,
 now they have shared.
 But anyways, you have a shared here.
 Then when you click here,
 you will see a recording folder here.
 You will click on the recording,
 and you will find the recording here.
 So I, firstly, it is saved with a very full name,
 like the whole meeting name.
 And once I finished the recording,
 so I normally rename it as week one, week two, week three,
 or week one assessment discussion and so on.
 So easily you can track, right?
 So this is the second way
 where you can track all the recordings.
 So for anyone who missed our previous lecture,
 who missed any part of the today's lecture,
 please have a look to this lecture.
 And once we finish this one, stop the recording,
 it will take a while to upload on the cloud.
 Then you will be able to see week two lecture here as well.
 Right?
 So these are the two ways where you can file
 all the recordings and so on.
 Lend up okay for you?
 - Yeah, all good, all good.
 - Okay, okay.
 Yes, Irani, can you share your screen and let us know?
 - Professor, can you help?
 Help me with your and itself, like my system is messed up.
 - Okay, so you want me to go through that process again?
 Okay.
 - Yes, that would be great, thank you.
 - So another thing, okay, it's already open.
 So you will go to the Google Scholar.
 And once you go there, you can type my name there,
 Kamran Shokat and here you will see all of my publication,
 whatever I have done so far related to machine.
 - Professor, could you send a link of your Google Scholar?
 - Yeah, I can share it here as well.
 - Thank you so much.
 - There is the chat.
 My system also getting slow.
 I'm not sure what's the problem.
 Okay, there is the Google Scholar.
 So you will see here, this is one of my PhD work.
 During my PhD, I have applied machine learning techniques
 for malware detection for cybersecurity.
 So that is part of my PhD work related to machine learning
 and cybersecurity.
 Here I have done some work with the IoT devices,
 internet of things like your smart watches,
 your sensor data, your smart homes and wearable devices.
 So if there would be any problem with those ones,
 so those all come under the umbrella
 of your internet of things.
 So what could be the cyber attacks there
 and how to mitigate and so on.
 Then this is also part of my PhD work,
 the performance comparison and current challenges,
 current issues.
 If you are not able to find out what would be the title
 of my thesis or what would be the research problem,
 or if you haven't decided with your supervisor,
 you are most welcome, you can discuss with me.
 If you have any interest to work
 into the machine learning area to apply
 for any type of your cybersecurity area.
 Currently, I am supervising the five PhD students,
 two at another uni and three as a principal supervisor
 at Torrance University.
 One of the student is doing something
 with the yield crop prediction or maybe agriculture stuff.
 So within the agriculture,
 we haven't defined exactly the problem,
 but we know that we are going to apply machine learning
 to solve any problem in the agriculture.
 So we discussed related to yield crop prediction and so on.
 So one of the student is doing that thing.
 The other student is doing using the LLMs,
 large learning models in order to improve
 the defect detection related to software and so on.
 And the third student is doing related
 to the federated learning.
 I will explain you someday what federated learning is,
 but that is for federating for the malware detection,
 different kinds of attacks which are happening
 over different platforms.
 So what is the federated learning
 and what are the drawbacks of the federated learning
 if already being applied and how to improve that one.
 Similarly, I have done a lot of work
 on the medical data as well.
 So there are certain problems,
 which I will discuss to you when it comes.
 What is data re-sampling problems?
 Why we do it and what are those things?
 So you can say these are highly cited papers.
 Then I also work with the brain tumor classification,
 like MRI images as well.
 I also worked with the financial data as well,
 where the credit card default prediction
 for imbalance data set.
 Then this is also part of my PhD work
 for cyber detection using machine learning techniques.
 This is also my PhD work,
 machine learning techniques for malware detection.
 I also work with anomaly detection as well,
 that as you can find up here.
 I did some work, some papers with the skin cancer
 classification as well.
 That is another kind of issue when you apply
 machine learning for any task, which is adversarial attacks.
 I will explain one day with you as well,
 what are the adversarial attacks and so on.
 Then I worked with the neuro imaging as well as my disease.
 That's one of my other PhD students who is working
 to detect different kind of asthma disease and so on.
 The problem within these, I worked a little bit
 into the blockchain as well, not too much.
 Bankruptcy prediction using machine learning
 is also other work.
 With the collaboration of one of my friend,
 I work with the belt fraud detection.
 You see different conveyors and different belts
 into the different industries where data is being,
 not the data actually, the physical items
 are being transferred from one place to another place.
 Like for example, different belts where we get our luggage
 when we came to Australia.
 So in that case, there could be some problem with the belt
 and you are not able to track it, where is the problem
 and you not always monitor those ones.
 So there could be certain sensors there,
 which you can use in order to see if there any problem
 into your belts and so on.
 So these are the things which you can have a read
 if you have any interest.
 So you can have a read to those one as well, okay.
 So these are the areas you can have a look on
 on some of the papers if you have any interest
 so you can discuss with those one.
 Now comes towards what Rakesh mentioned
 and Irani asked about the Google collab.
 So you can simply search Google collab here.
 And then you will click on Google collab.
 The first thing I got and then you will click on open collab
 and then it will ask you initially to sign in
 to sync with any of your Gmail account.
 Since I am already logging with that one,
 so it didn't ask me.
 So you can create a new notebook here
 or maybe if you already have any template,
 which we will provide you and you already have the template
 for the Chris TM architecture for your assessment.
 So you can simply use that template to upload it
 and you can work with that one.
 That will really help you.
 So for example, if you go to the assessment one,
 so in the assessment one,
 here is the Chris TM architecture, IPYNB file.
 You can download this one, which has all of these stages.
 So you can just work and upload your data set
 and work with that one, right?
 So you can download this file, IPYNB Python file, right?
 And then later on, you can just simply upload here
 into the upload section.
 You can browse and you can simply upload
 that particular file, which you want to work with, right?
 So whatever you have, for example,
 you can simply work, for example, this one.
 When you will open it up, it will open
 and then you can start working.
 No issue with that one.
 When you will upload that template,
 you will find here section one related to, for example,
 data understanding, business understanding,
 data preparation, and so on.
 And you keep working with that one, what you are going to do.
 And then we discuss like normally here, we have two blocks.
 One is the code block, other one is the text.
 Text one is, for example, this one, if you want to write.
 And this is the code block because if you will run it,
 so it will run as a code, right?
 And this will run as a simple text.
 When it is executed, you will find a tick box here.
 When this one is executed, I will execute it now.
 So you will see a tick box here.
 And also you will see that it is just a text, right?
 And there is no processes, but if it is the coding one,
 then it has actual code, which you will work.
 Rakesh, Irani, any question, anyone else?
 - All good as of now, thank you.
 - Yes, Rakesh, you got it?
 - Yeah, got it, sir, thank you.
 - So you can just upload your template here,
 and you can just start like working.
 And next week, I gonna discuss about all of the assessment,
 what you can have, what you can do more
 in order to get the distinction
 or high distinction and so on.
 So you can start working on those one.
 Meanwhile, if you have any question, any confusion,
 any doubt, you can approach me anytime
 and happy to respond to you and help you.
 - Yes, any other question you have?
 - No, professor, thank you so much.
 - So in our today's class,
 we started with the discussion of machine learning.
 We discussed machine learning is a branch of AI,
 which performs various action
 without explicitly being programmed.
 We discussed about supervised and unsupervised learning.
 Supervised is where we have an idea of the label,
 unsupervised where we don't know what we going to do.
 In supervised, we have classification
 where the type of the attribute is categorical
 and regression where the type of the attribute
 is of type continuous.
 In unsupervised learning,
 we have clustering where you just analyze your data
 and based on that analysis,
 you group your data into various clusters.
 You have unsemi-supervised learning.
 We discussed about outlier analysis.
 We discussed about association analysis.
 And then further to that one,
 we discussed about the machine learning algorithm,
 machine learning model as well.
 Then we also discussed about the Chris DM architecture.
 We discussed that there are six different phases
 of Chris DM architecture.
 We discussed that the first stage is where you will
 understand your business understanding.
 You will understand what are your business objective.
 You will assess your situation.
 What do you have in order to accomplish
 that particular task?
 We will also set our data mining goals.
 We discussed data mining is a process
 to extract the interesting patterns
 from the huge amount of data.
 Then we discussed about the data understanding
 where you will collect your initial data,
 you will analyze it, you will visualize it,
 and you will verify its quality
 if there will be any problem, any issue in your data.
 Do your data has any outliers?
 Does it have any missing values and so on?
 Then whatever the problems you have done here,
 you will actually fix those one into third stage
 of data preparation, where you will select your data,
 clean your data from the missing values,
 outline analysis and so on.
 And you will also construct some new features
 or maybe you can integrate some of the features.
 You will permit your data properly.
 And then in the modeling stage, which is the fourth stage,
 you will apply certain models
 and then you will do all that analysis.
 After that analysis, you will evaluate it
 and you will also assess whether you have met the target,
 whichever you have done
 in your first business understanding stage,
 whether you have met those targets
 and then for the deployment for the three assessments,
 we are not gonna deploy your model
 rather than we're gonna mention
 all of the lesson learns here.
 What was the problem that you observed?
 What was the problem in your data set?
 What was the problem in your machine learning models?
 How you can improve it, how you can make it better,
 how the performance or accuracy
 or whatever the metric you have selected could be improved
 in order to increase the performance of your model.
 So those would be the six stages.
 Then we discussed about the Google Colab and other stuff.
 And then we also tried to trace it out
 if we missed any class, how you can find the recordings.
 And we discussed, you can do it using the MyLearn one
 and you can do from the teams as well,
 where in the teams you just have to scroll down
 and see your particular teams,
 then you will click on your share tab
 and then where you will find the recording folders
 and then within the recording,
 you will find all those recordings.
 So any question, any doubt you may have?
 - Again, Landeep, Victor, Khan, Mustakim, Rakesh, Hirani.
 - No questions.
 - No questions, professor, thank you.
 - Okay, all good.
 - No question, thank you.
 - Yeah, so good.
 You can just, that's all from my side of the two days.
 Then you can perform the activities.
 You can just go to the module section
 and see what activities you have
 and if there would be any problem,
 you can reach out to me and then happy to answer.
 Once you're done with your activities,
 all you wanna do later on, up to you guys
 and that's all from my side and I will see you next week.
 - Thank you very much, see you next week.
 - See you, Mustakim.
 - Thank you, professor, see you next week.
 - Thank you. - Thank you.
 - Thank you.
 - Thank you again, thank you, Hirani.
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
 (silence)
